Date: 06 June 2024
Title: Strengthening Health in the Mountains of Kyrgyzstan Through Collaboration and Dialogue
Content: 06 June 2024
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan - The Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic (MoH) and the World Health Organization (WHO) are pleased to announce the high-level policy dialogue on “Health in the Mountains Agenda." This event addresses the health challenges faced by mountain communities.
Representatives from the Special Envoy of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic on Mountain Issues, UN Resident Coordinator, Plenipotentiary Representatives of the President in oblasts, development partners, foreign embassies, various ministries and agencies attended the event.
In 2022, Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov initiated the adoption of the "Sustainable Mountain Development" resolution by the United Nations General Assembly. This resolution calls for "Five Years of Action for the Development of Mountain Regions" from 2023 to 2027, highlighting the issues faced by mountainous communities due to climate change, food insecurity, emergency, and poverty, as well as health and well-being.
In Kyrgyzstan, where 90% of the country is above 3,000 meters, health issues such as high-altitude pulmonary hypertension and abdominal obesity are common. However, the challenges go beyond these conditions. Disparities in health system performance, access to clean water and sanitation, and other determinants of health contribute to health inequities in rural and remote mountain areas.
To tackle these issues, the "Health in the Mountains Agenda" has become an area of collaboration between the Kyrgyz Government, WHO, and other international organizations involved in advancing the Mountains Agenda. As a first step in this effort in the health sector, the Ministry of Health and WHO brought together key stakeholders for a two-day starting dialogue.
The event expanded the concept of health within the Mountains Agenda, emphasizing the importance of a people-centered, comprehensive, and intersectoral approach to improving health and well-being of those living in mountainous areas, leaving no one behind. It also highlighted the need for cross-sector collaboration to tackle inequities affecting the health of mountainous communities, with a focus on primary health care, social participation, community engagement, and the role of local government development initiatives.
Participants shared their experiences and ideas, aiming to develop a common agenda and concrete steps for future collaboration at national, regional and local levels.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/270884-strengthening-health-mountains-kyrgyzstan-through-collaboration-and-dialogue




Date: 06 June 2024
Title: WHO and USAID Collaborate to Strengthen Kyrgyzstan's Emergency Preparedness
Content: 06 June 2024
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan – In a joint effort supported by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the World Health Organization (WHO) partnered with the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic to conduct a comprehensive simulation exercise (SimEx) at Manas International Airport. This initiative aimed to assess and enhance the country's readiness to handle potential public health emergencies caused by infectious diseases.
The SimEx funded by the USAID’s Global Health Security (GHS) Program was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of existing operational protocols in response to suspected cases of infectious diseases upon aircraft arrival. Divided into four stages, the exercise simulated various scenarios from the moments preceding landing to the management of passengers and patients.
Dr. Liviu Vedrasco, WHO Representative to Kyrgyzstan, emphasized the importance of such simulations in bolstering emergency preparedness. "SimEx exercises are instrumental in identifying and addressing gaps in our response capabilities," he stated. "By providing participants with hands-on experience in a simulated emergency scenario, we can refine protocols and enhance our readiness to tackle real-world challenges."
“Conducting practical exercises helps to firstly test our operating procedures, secondly, improve them before the real situation arises, and thirdly, build public health capacity to respond to emergencies and prepare for future threats,” commented Abdykadyr Joroev, Director of the Department of Disease Prevention and State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance under the Ministry of Health.
Representatives from a multitude of organizations, including the Ministry of Health, the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance departments, and various other government ministries and agencies, actively participated in the exercise. Their collaboration underscored the significance of multisectoral coordination in ensuring the efficacy of public health services.
This SimEx marks the fifth installment in a series of initiatives spearheaded by WHO in Kyrgyzstan since 2019 to fortify emergency preparedness and response efforts. It serves as a testament to the commitment of all stakeholders towards safeguarding public health and strengthening the country's resilience against future threats.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/270909-who-and-usaid-collaborate-strengthen-kyrgyzstans-emergency-preparedness




Date: 06 June 2024
Title: UN Special Rapporteur on freedom of expression welcomed withdrawal and review of the controversial draft Law on Mass Media  in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 06 June 2024
On 6 June, the UN Special Rapporteur on freedom of opinion and expression   welcomed the Presidential decision to withdraw the draft Mass Media Law from Parliament for further revisions on 13 March 2024, and the following engagement with civil society and media representatives on the draft.
The previous draft Law was evaluated by the UN Special Rapporteur, OSCE institutions, and the Venice Commission.  The past reviews expressed concerns  regarding vague and wide restrictions on permissible media content, mandatory registration of online media, stringent media accreditation rules and i other forms of excessive governmental control that may have had a chilling effect on media freedom, the right of freedom of expression and access to information more broadly. The UN Special Rapporteur expressed hopes that the ongoing revision will ensure compliance of the updated draft Law with international human rights standards.
Media freedom experts and advocacy organizations are also hoping that open consultations will include a request by the Government to the OSCE institutions and the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe for a follow-up review of the updated draft Law, so that the final Law adopted by Parliament is closely aligned with international human rights standards and norms. [MB1] Link to the story  on the OHCHR webpage:  Kyrgyzstan withdraws contentious mass media bill following review by the Special Rapporteur on freedom of opinion and expression, OSCE institutions and the Venice Commission | United Nations in Kyrgyz Republic
Link to the original text of the Other Letter of the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Opinion and Expression from 20 June 2023: OL KGZ (3.2023) (ohchr.org)

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/270908-un-special-rapporteur-freedom-expression-welcomed-withdrawal-and-review-controversial-draft




Date: 05 June 2024
Title: Kyrgyzstan Launches the World’s First National Survey on the Prevalence, Health, and Economic Impact of Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
Content: 05 June 2024
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan - The Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic, in partnership with the World Health Organization (WHO), announces the launch of the world’s first national survey to evaluate the prevalence, health, and economic impact of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in human bloodstream bacterial infections.
AMR poses a formidable challenge worldwide, rendering conventional antibiotics increasingly ineffective and threatening the efficacy of essential medical interventions. By undertaking this comprehensive survey, Kyrgyzstan is not only taking proactive steps to safeguard its population but is also setting a precedent for other nations to follow suit in the fight against AMR.
The kick-off event brought together representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Parliament, development partners and foreign embassies, various ministries and agencies, healthcare workers, WHO experts, and members of professional associations.
As the survey progresses, the findings are anticipated to provide invaluable insights into the dynamics of AMR within Kyrgyzstan, to assess the ramifications of AMR on public health and the economy, to devise containment strategies, and to enhance clinical protocols for managing patients with bloodstream infections. Together, these insights will also inform evidence-based policies and interventions to mitigate the spread of AMR and its negative impacts.
As of today, the WHO has supported the survey with over $300,000 in equipment and diagnostic tools. Additionally, WHO conducted comprehensive theoretical and practical training sessions for personnel from 40 hospitals across the country, as well as staff from three central reference laboratories and their affiliated institutions, all of which are crucial for the survey's success.
Dr. Liviu Vedrasco, WHO Representative to Kyrgyzstan emphasized the importance of this survey, stating, "Understanding the extent and impact of antimicrobial resistance is paramount for safeguarding public health and fostering sustainable healthcare systems. This initiative marks a pivotal moment in our collective efforts to combat this pressing global health threat."
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/270638-kyrgyzstan-launches-world%E2%80%99s-first-national-survey-prevalence-health-and-economic-impact




Date: 03 May 2024
Title: Joint statement on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day
Content: 03 May 2024
Today, on World Press Freedom Day, we acknowledge the crucial role of journalism in addressing the urgent environmental challenges facing our planet.
Sustainable development is under threat, with the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss, and air pollution posing significant risks to humanity. In the Kyrgyz Republic, increasing temperatures are leading to more frequent and intense extreme events, such as drought, unpredictable seasonal weather, and an increasing number of landslides, mudflows, and avalanches. Cities in Kyrgyzstan experience unhealthy levels of air pollution.  In the face of these crises, access to reliable information and independent environmental journalism has never been more vital.
In order to respond to the environmental crisis, Governments across the world have made commitments to take action that need to be monitored. The Kyrgyz Republic has committed to combating climate change and accelerating the transition to climate-resilient, low-carbon sustainable modes of development. Journalists play a key role in monitoring the implementation of these commitments.
Journalists, as an integral part of worldwide press, also play a crucial role in separating facts from misinformation, including climate disinformation, which focuses on undermining proven solutions, including renewable energy.    Publicly reporting verified facts empowers societies to make informed decisions on environmental policies. They can shed light on environmental crimes, corruption, and powerful interests, often at great personal risk. They report on contemporary environmental issues such as climate migration, pollution, deforestation, and illegal activities that threaten our planet's well-being.
This year, World Press Freedom Day highlights the indispensable role of journalism and freedom of expression in addressing the global environmental crisis and the critical contribution of the press in ensuring a sustainable future that respects individuals' rights, diversity of voices, and gender equality.
Today, we stand in solidarity with journalists and media professionals who tirelessly work to ensure the public's right to access accurate and comprehensive information.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/267709-joint-statement-occasion-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 23 April 2024
Title: Growth of non-custodial sanctions in the Kyrgyz Republic since 2020
Content: 23 April 2024
The Kyrgyz Republic reports a decrease of its prison population, backing the ongoing humanization of its criminal justice system.
The prison population amounted to 7728 in 2023, a 20% decrease compared to 2020 (9658 prisoners).

Despite the increased number of convictions by 22% from 2020 (5 074) to 2023 (6 202), the number of non-custodial sentences – alternatives to imprisonment – has risen by 55 %. This was reported at a roundtable discussion organized by the Ministry of Justice and UNODC Programme Office in the Kyrgyz Republic on 17 April 2024.
In the framework of the EU-co-funded project ‘JUST4ALL’ focusing on the establishment of a probation system and criminal justice information management systems, UNODC conducted an analytical review on the judicial practice on custodial and non-custodial sentences between 202 and 2023. This research aimed at analysing court decisions on alternatives to incarceration and collecting data to inform evidence-based technical assistance within the mentioned project.
An interagency Working Group, formed by the Ministry of Justice’s order #172, was tasked to conduct an analytical review by representatives from the Supreme Court, the General Prosecutor's Office, Prison Service and Probation Department.
Mr. Zarylbek uulu Almazbek, Deputy Minister of Justice of the Kyrgyz Republic emphasized that this analysis would help to identify positive aspects and shortcomings in the current system. "This work is necessary and relevant, and we are convinced that it will contribute, among others, to the harmonization of regulatory legal acts, as well as improved cooperation and interaction with government agencies."
“The EU-funded “JUST4ALL” project plays a key role in promoting the humanization of the criminal justice system in Kyrgyzstan through strengthening the probation system. The collection and analysis of data on criminal justice is key to inform evidence-based sustainable policies and decision making”, said Mr. Cosimo Lamberti-Fossati, Project Manager from the Delegation of the EU in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Highlighting the steady decline of the prison population, a positive trend, the multi-stakeholder roundtable discussion allowed participants – judiciary, government entities, technical experts, civil society organisations, and international partners – to express their views and exchange on several ongoing challenges.
The participants highlighted the positive role of the Probation service, and the need for tailored approaches when it comes to the probation clients’ social reintegration and rehabilitation. Further challenges include ensuring probation staff are well equipped to address the needs of probation clients by creating appropriate working conditions and tackling the high turnover rate of probation officers, to ensure the trainings’ sustainability, including those conducted within the project.
Participants also agreed on the need to strengthen multistakeholder synergies when implementing alternatives to detention. UNODC International Project Coordinator, Mr. George Abadjian, underlined that ‘the EU-funded JUST4ALL creates a platform to exchange on relevant topics in the criminal justice system, also going beyond the project main outcomes”. This is a significant result of the project – bringing stakeholders around a table and allowing them to exchange in an open and trustworthy environment.
Participants also pointed out to the JUST4ALL interventions supporting the Probation system, including the support to the draft State Programme on Development of Penitentiary and Probation System for 2024-2028 and the development of the risk and needs assessment tool that will be the cornerstone for tailored programs for probation clients.
JUST4ALL builds on the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for Non-custodial Measures (the Tokyo Rules), encouraging Member States to develop non-custodial measures within their legal systems to provide alternatives, thus reducing the use of imprisonment, as well as to rationalize criminal justice policies, considering human rights, the requirements of social justice and the rehabilitation needs of the offender.
for more information, contact Vasilina Brazhko Communications Analyst at EU/UNODC Just4All project at +996775987817 WhatsApp & Cellphone
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/266792-growth-non-custodial-sanctions-kyrgyz-republic-2020




Date: 17 April 2024
Title: Protecting Minority Rights: A Practical Guide on Developing Comprehensive Anti-Discrimination Legislation
Content: 17 April 2024
“By enacting laws that give practical effect to the principle of equal enjoyment of everyone of all rights regardless of status provide an essential foundation for States to realize their ambitions to leave no one behind and to create free and peaceful societies in which all are equal in dignity and rights. This is of particular importance to persons belonging to minorities – it is the very precondition for their ability to exercise the rights to their identity and existence and to the full and effective participation in all spheres of life”, - said Antje Grawe, UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan, during the launch event of the Russian-language version of the Protecting Minority Rights: A Practical Guide on Developing Comprehensive Anti-Discrimination Legislation.
On April 16, 2024, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the international NGO Equal Rights Trust convened in Bishkek to launch the Russian-language edition of the Guide. The launch event was also attended by the Chairperson of the Coordination Council on Human Rights Edil Baisalov, representatives from the government and civil society, as well as from the international community.

“The Guide provides the main conceptual and substantive elements of anti-discrimination law as understood under international human rights law, as well as concrete country-based practices and practical guidance,” – said Claude Cahn from OHCHR. “It provides support for everyone seeking to act on United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres’s global call in 2021 for all of the States of the world to adopt comprehensive anti-discrimination laws. In the 15 months since its publication in English, the Guide has been translated into multiple languages and used by law- and policy-makers around the world. In addition to an exhaustive research process reviewing the content and interpretation of all of the relevant UN human rights convention, the Guide was the subject of extensive global consultation with academic and civil society experts.”
Protecting Minority Rights: A Practical Guide on Developing Comprehensive Anti-Discrimination Legislation  is available here Minority Rights, Equality and Anti-Discrimination Law | OHCHR
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/266225-protecting-minority-rights-practical-guide-developing-comprehensive-anti-discrimination




Date: 08 April 2024
Title: Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights: “Kyrgyzstan’s new “foreign representatives” law risks undermining work of NGOs”
Content: 08 April 2024

Jeremy Laurence, Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights:
“We have serious concerns that a new law due to come into force in Kyrgyzstan in just over a week’s time will pose a serious threat to the work of numerous civil society organisations in the country, and, more broadly, violate fundamental rights to freedom of expression, association, peaceful assembly and the right to take part in public affairs.
Earlier this week, President Sadyr Japarov signed into law the “foreign representatives” bill. This grants the authorities extensive oversight of non-commercial organisations and stipulates that NGOs engaging in what are broadly termed “political activities” and receiving foreign funding must register as “foreign representatives”. Failure to do so could result in their operations being suspended for up to six months, and possibly forced liquidation.
The majority of NGOs actively operating in Kyrgyzstan receive grants, including from international organisations and foreign donors.
We are concerned that many of the affected NGOs could feel compelled to close to avoid being stigmatised as “foreign representatives”, exposed to arbitrary checks by the authorities, and having to pay for annual audits.
Those that choose to be registered as “foreign representatives” could end up having to self-censor. This, in turn, would lead to legitimate public advocacy, human rights monitoring and reporting, and discussion of matters of public interest being seriously stifled.
We call on the authorities to repeal the new law and ensure all future legislation fully respects international human rights law and standards.
We also urge the authorities to engage in meaningful consultations with all relevant stakeholders, including civil society organisations and human rights defenders in this regard.”
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/265431-spokesperson-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-%E2%80%9Ckyrgyzstan%E2%80%99s-new-%E2%80%9Cforeign-representatives%E2%80%9D




Date: 18 March 2024
Title: The European Union (EU) and the World Health Organization (WHO) are working to strengthen the digitalization of healthcare in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 18 March 2024
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan – Yesterday, members of the delegation of the European Union (EU), together with representatives of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the management of the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic, visited the City Perinatal Center and Family Medicine Center #6 to study the practice of using digital solutions in the field of healthcare.
In particular, they got acquainted with the immunization information system "iEmdoo" ("iЭмдөө").
During the visit, members of the delegation met with medical workers who actively use digital tools in the daily work of the hospital and the organization of primary health care. They became familiar with the practical application of information systems for birth registration and patient outpatient records.
The "iEmdoo" information system was also demonstrated, which allows for personalized records of people receiving vaccines, including planned ones and those carried out for epidemiological reasons. This system, through a digital vaccination card created in the maternity hospital during the first vaccination of a newborn, allows recording information about medical exemptions, possible side effects after vaccination, and other important aspects of the patient’s health throughout life.
As noted by the Deputy Minister of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic, Mr. Bakyt Dzhangaziev, data on the vaccination of children is available to their parents through a mobile application, which helps to more actively involve parents in caring for the health of their children. To date, over 2 million digital vaccination cards have been created, which emphasizes the relevance of this information system.
"This regional project builds up stronger and more resilient health systems in Central Asia. Thanks to the EU support, amounting to 10 million EUR, healthcare sector of Kyrgyzstan is better prepared to respond to global, regional or national health crises", Hans Farhnhammer, Head of Cooperation at the EU Delegation in Kyrgyzstan.
During the visit, Dr. Liviu Vedrasco, WHO Representative to Kyrgyzstan, noted that in the digital era, Kyrgyzstan's focus on strengthening digital health is a strategic step towards achieving universal health coverage. Using technology, the country is taking bold steps to ensure that healthcare is accessible to every citizen.
At the end of the visit, members of the delegation discussed vectors for further cooperation and the implementation of the Target Model for the Development of Digital Healthcare "Sanarip MED" and exchanged valuable views and opinions regarding its effectiveness and development prospects.
***
Additional information: The visit was organized as part of a 4-year EU-funded project in 5 countries of Central Asia – Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan – to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and reinforce the resilience of health systems. Immunization plays a pivotal role in this regard. By supporting Central Asian countries to promote and deliver vaccines safely to the population, infectious diseases can be prevented and controlled more effectively.
The EU is investing €10 million into Central Asia’s immunization and health information systems – further modernizing them through digitalization and improving the availability of good-quality data, which is crucial to ensuring high immunization coverage at all times, leaving no one behind.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/263634-european-union-eu-and-world-health-organization-who-are-working-strengthen-digitalization




Date: 15 March 2024
Title: Statement by UN Resident Coordinator on the adoption of amendments to the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic “On Non-Commercial Organizations”
Content: 15 March 2024
Building on the UN's past comments, the UN Resident Coordinator expresses concern about the adoption on 14 March 2024 of amendments to the Law on Non-Commercial Organizations, which could result in unwarranted restrictions on the work of civil society, including potentially hindering progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Civil society organizations (CSOs) play a vital role, alongside the State and other partners, to advance the country’s socio-economic development, provide essential services to the vulnerable and marginalized, assist those in need during crises, protect human rights and promote peace.
The law’s enactment may pose challenges to the effective engagement of civil society in development initiatives, to help alleviate poverty, reduce inequalities and achieve the SDGs. It also has the potential to stigmatize CSOs and civic activists, restrict human rights, and impede public participation and inclusive dialogue.
Underlining the essential role a vibrant civil society plays for sustainable development, human rights and democratic governance, the UN Resident Coordinator recommends a more thorough and inclusive review of the law that takes into consideration recommendations from the UN Special Rapporteurs and other national and international partners, including civil society. The UN stands ready to further discuss these recommendations with the authorities and other relevant partners.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/265989-statement-un-resident-coordinator-adoption-amendments-law-kyrgyz-republic-%E2%80%9C-non-commercial




Date: 15 March 2024
Title: UN Special Procedures sent to the Permanent Mission of Kyrgyzstan a Joint Allegation Letter raising questions about several cases related to freedom of expression, freedom of the media.
Content: 15 March 2024
Mandates of the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression; the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention; the Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association and the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders

Ref.: AL KGZ 1/2024
Excellency,
We have the honour to address you in our capacities as Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression; Working Group on Arbitrary Detention; Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association and Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, pursuant to Human Rights Council resolutions 52/9, 51/8, 50/17 and 52/4.
In this connection, we would like to bring to the attention of your Excellency’s Government information we have received concerning the alleged crackdown against independent media in Kyrgyzstan, including searches against several independent news outlets and homes of journalists, and the arrest of associated staff and journalists.
24.KG is an independent news agency based in Bishkek. It is one of Kyrgyzstan’s biggest private news outlets, known for its reporting on corruption, its criticism of the government and satire. Ms. Asel Otorbaeva is the general director of 24.KG, and Ms. Makhinur Niyazova and Mr. Anton Lymar are the chief editors of the outlet.
Temirov Live is an independent news channel which reports on alleged cases of corruption in Kyrgyzstan. It was founded by award winning, anti-corruption journalist and human rights defender Mr. Bolot Temirov, who as a result of his journalistic work on corruption in the country, was criminalised, had his citizenship cancelled and was deported from Kyrgyzstan in 2022.
Kloop Media is a Kyrgyz news website, established in 2007, consisting of majority students and graduates of the Kloop Media Public Foundation School of Journalism. It is an independent media outlet, registered as a public foundation for developing journalism and fostering political awareness among youth. It is known for publishing reports on alleged corruption within governmental bodies and providing training on fact-checking and investigative journalism to national and international journalists. Kloop Media is also a partner of the global investigative network Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP), which frequently publishes investigative reports critical of Kyrgyz authorities. On 27 October 2023, we raised our concern about the judicial harassment, threat of closure and imposed website blocking against Kloop Media. We regret that we have not received a response from your Excellency’s Government to this letter (AL KGZ 5/2023).


According to information received:
On 15 January 2024, at approximately 10.40 am, the office of 24.KG in Bishkek was searched by officers from Kyrgyzstan’s State Committee for National Security (SCNS). At approximately 11 am, four defence lawyers of 24.KG arrived at the office. Only one of the four lawyers were allowed inside at approximately at 12.30 pm when the search was almost completed, thus the 24.KG director, editors and staff were denied access to the qualified legal assistance during the search. After the search, Mr. Otorbaeva, Mr. Niyazova and Mr. Lymar were taken to the SCNS building and were interrogated as witnesses for four hours. According to reports, at least one of the journalists was allegedly obstructed access to the defence lawyer during the first 40 minutes of the interrogation. Upon their release, the three journalists said they were unable to share details of the interrogation, as they were required to sign a non-disclosure agreement, allegedly without the required written justification that should be provided by the investigator on what exact information cannot be disclosed, on which grounds and during which period of time such restriction will apply.
During the search, the officers seized mobile phones, computers, laptops, electronic media and other materials and equipment belonging to the agency and the staff members. These personal gadgets and all office equipment remain seized by the SCNS as evidence. The officers sent the remaining staff and journalists home and sealed the office.
The search was allegedly approved by the investigative judge of Pervomayskiy District Court in Bishkek on 9 January 2024. It was allegedly carried out as part of a criminal investigation initiated into alleged “war propaganda” charges, under article 407 part 1 of the Kyrgyz Criminal Code, in connection to the outlet’s reporting on the war in Ukraine. The charge carries a prison sentence of up to five years or heavy fines. The criminal case was initiated based on the results of an SCNS-solicited linguistic expert review conducted in September 2023, however the date of when the criminal case was initiated remains unknown. This expert review analysed parts of a 24.KG article and concluded that it ‘incites people’s desire to go and participate in the war on the side of Ukraine.’ Copies of the state expert analysis were not provided to 24.KG director, editors and their defence lawyers; they were only allowed to read them on the day when the search was conducted. Since 26 February 2024, a motion of the defence lawyers to receive a copy of this expert analysis has been rejected by the SCNS investigator, as reportedly, the Criminal Procedure Code does not grant such a right to persons who are questioned as witnesses in a criminal investigation.
On 22 January 2024, the SCNS investigator refused to satisfy the motion of the 24.KG Director, Mrs. Otorbaeva in which she asked the investigator to allow access of the 24.KG staff to their sealed office in order to continue their work. Lawyers of 24.KG appealed to the Pervomayskiy District Court against the investigator’s decision to seal off the office. On 6 February 2024, the Pervomayskiy District Court also rejected this motion. On 19 February 2024, the Bishkek City Court rejected the 24.KG media complaint that challenged 3 the failure of the Pervomayskiy District Court’s decision to annul the decision of the chief SCNS investigator from 22 January 2024.
On 6 February 2024, the Pervomayskiy District Court rejected a complaint by 24.KG lawyer which challenged the legality and justification of the SCNS searches conducted in the 24.KG office on 15 January 2024. The Pervomayskiy District Court ruled that, despite the fact that three 24.KG lawyers were denied access (denied legal assistance) to the office 20 minutes after the search, the fact that one lawyer signed the protocol of search meant the complaint of 24.KG was baseless.
On 6 February 2024, the Pervomayskiy District Court’s also rejected Mrs. Otorbaeva’s complaint in which she questioned legality and justified nature of the action of the SCNS investigator that obliged her, after having questioned her as a witness in the registered criminal case, to sign a nondisclosure agreement. This agreement bans her from disseminating information related to the ongoing pre-trial investigation. The investigative judge ruled that there were no signs of coercion or pressure that might have been exerted on Mrs. Otorbaeva by the SCNS investigator; and that on 15 January 2024 the investigator allegedly issued a reasoned decision on nondisclosure obligation, concluding that provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code of Kyrgyzstan had not been violated.
On 29 February 2024, the Bishkek City Court rejected two appeals of the 24.KG lawyer regarding legality and reasoned nature of the earlier decisions/actions of the investigator of the SCNS. The appeals challenged the Pervomayskiy District Court’s decisions from 6 February. Reportedly, prior to this hearing, the SCNS investigator, allegedly with support of a prosecutor from Bishkek City Prosecutors’ Office, asked judges to hold hearings on the 24.KG lawyer’s complaints behind the closed doors. On 29 February, the Bishkek City Court’s judicial panel partially satisfied this motion ordering the public to leave the court room only during the presentation of arguments by the SCNS investigator.
Criminal cases against 11 journalists and media workers
Between 6 - 8 am on 16 January 2024, in Bishkek, investigators of the Ministry of Interior Chief Investigative Department searched the homes of journalists and media workers associated with Temirov Live and its sister project Ait Ait Dese, including the director Ms. Makhabat Tajibek kyzy, Temirov Live reporter Ms. Aike Beishekeeva, camera operator Mr. Akyl Orozbekov, Ait Ait Dese journalist Mr. Sapar Akunbekov, as well as Mr. Azamat Ishenbekov, a folk singer who collaborated with Ait Ait Dese. The search was also conducted in the homes of six former Temirov Live staff members, including: Mr. Aktilek (Madaanbek) Kaparov, Mr. Tynystan Asypbekov, Mr. Saipidin Sultanaliev, Mr. Maksat Tajibek uulu, and Mr. Jumabek Turdaliev. Reportedly, reasons for the searches, seizure of equipment and the ensuing de facto arrests were not explained, and the defence lawyers were not present during these investigative activities.
According to reports, at around 10.30 am the police officers then took Ms. Tajibek kyzy to the Temirov Live office where they conducted a search and at around 12.00 pm confiscated computer equipment and sealed off the office, without the lawyer present. One of the police officers conducting the search reportedly told the media present that Ms. Tajibek kyzy had refused the lawyer’s assistance. When Ms. Tajibek kyzy has since stated that she had not refused a lawyer. According to reports, the search and Ms. Tajibek kyzy’s detention is related to the Temirov Live and Ait Ait Dese reporting on the Minister of Interior and a member of Parliament. At 12.40 pm Ms. Tajibek kyzy’s defense lawyer reported that he was not able to get access to his client who had been taken to the Ministry of Interior investigative Department for questioning.
After the searches, around 9-10 am, the other above-mentioned journalists were taken and interrogated as witnesses at the Ministry of Internal Affairs headquarters in Bishkek. Their lawyers were reportedly informed of the de facto arrests by the third parties. Subsequently, access of several defence lawyers to the police premises was obstructed for a few hours as they were unable to reach relevant investigators who were supposed to grant them access to the building. As the first interrogations of the journalists during the day time of 16 January 2024 were conducted in their status as witnesses, they were reportedly not read their rights, and moreover, as witnesses, they were not entitled to benefit from the right not to self-incriminate themselves and could not refuse the questioning.
Allegedly, protocols of arrest for 48 hours as the suspects were issued only after 9 pm on 16 January 2024, allegedly not mentioning the exact time of the factual arrests which occurred earlier that morning.
Reportedly, all protocols of detention as suspects quoted Article 96, part 2, para 1 of the Criminal Procedure Code of the Kyrgyz Republic which allows detention of persons as suspects only if they are “caught in the act of committing a crime or immediately after its commission”. Several defence lawyers still had not received copies of the protocols of the search and seizure, and some of them were reportedly obliged by the police investigators to sign non-disclosure agreements.
According to the press release of the Ministry of Interior issued on the morning of 16 January 2024, the searches and detentions were made under the charges of “active disobedience to the lawful demands of representatives of the authorities and for mass riots, as well as calls for violence against citizens”, which carries a criminal penalty from five up to eight years in prison.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs also reported that on 30 December 2023, during monitoring of social media pages of Ait Ait Dese and Temirov Live, investigators of the Ministry of Interior found video messages from Ms. Tajibek kyzy containing calls for mass riots. In response, on 12 January 2024, the Ministry of Interior commissioned a forensic linguistic examination, which concluded that Ms. Tajibek kyzy’s video messages “exhibited signs of incitement to mass riots, as determined by the Forensic Expert Service under the Ministry of Justice of the Kyrgyz Republic”. A criminal case was then 5 registered on the basis of the results of this state-solicited forensic linguistic expert examination.
Reportedly, formal charges and protocols implicating the detained journalists and media workers as the accused were filed by the investigators in the course of 17 January 2024.
On 17 January 2024, at approximately 6.30 pm all of the detained journalists and media workers were taken to the Pervomaiskiy district court. Only relatives were allowed to attend the court hearings. Media were not allowed into the courtroom.
On 17 January 2024, by approximately 10 pm the Pervomaiskiy District Court of Bishkek confirmed legality of all detentions, and sanctioned the two-month pre-trial detention for all the detained journalists as the accused in the criminal case investigated under Article 278 part 3 of the Criminal Code.
Reportedly, investigative judges of the Pervomaiskiy District Court did not establish the exact time of actual arrests and did not examine the defense lawyers’ arguments pointing to procedural violations during the arrests. All court decisions blanketly satisfied motions of the investigators of the Ministry of Interior, supported by Prosecutors from the Office of Prosecutors of Pervomaiskiy District of Bishkek, using the gravity of the incriminated crime as the main reason for sanctioning pre-trial detention.
Allegedly, the fact that several of the detained journalists had not been working for Temirov Live and Ait Ait Dese at the time when the media content used as the basis for the criminal charges had been produced were not considered. Other personal circumstances of the detained journalists, including their age, health status, minor children or other dependents, the fact that none of them had been ever before implicated in any offences were also allegedly not considered by the court. Finally, the court decisions did not examine whether the accused could abscond from the investigative authorities or could otherwise obstruct the investigation if they were subjected to a non-custodial pre-trial restraint measure.
Between 16 January 2024 and 29 January 2024, the journalists were reportedly kept in a temporary detention facility (IVS) under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, despite the national legislation’s provisions that oblige investigative authorities to transfer pre-trial detainees to the pre-trial detention center (SIZO) under the State Penitentiary Service’s (within the Ministry of Justice) jurisdiction promptly after the court’s ruling on the pre-trial detention. Conditions at the temporary detention facility are allegedly unsuitable for long-term detention, as was noted by the National Center for the Prevention of Torture after two preventive monitoring visits to the detained journalists. Transferring pre-trial detainees under authority of another state body not involved in the investigation is an important safeguard against ill-treatment that could be exerted on detainees. Reportedly, complaints of several defence lawyers against this violation had not been addressed by the General Prosecutors’ Office.
While in police custody at the IVS for 12 days, the detained journalists were allegedly subjected to unlawful questioning by the Ministry of Interior investigators and asked to provide passcodes to their previously seized equipment.
During public court hearings which took place between 1-6 February 2024, the Bishkek City Court rejected all appeals filed by the 10 journalists and their lawyers challenging the legality of their arrests and two-month pre-trial detention. All arguments of defence lawyers remunerating procedural violations during the search of private homes and the office of Temirov Live, as well as during seizure of equipment and documents, ensuing detention and investigation, including the failure of investigators to provide required copies of procedural documents on conducted searches, were reportedly not duly examined by the three judges’ panels. Prosecutors reportedly did not pay attention to any of the arguments of the defence lawyers, including references to personal circumstances of the detainees.
During these separate appeal hearings, the 10 journalists and media workers were brought into the courtroom in person. Several of the journalists were brought in and escorted out of the courtroom in handcuffs, and heavy convoy was present during all hearings. All journalists were kept in a cage and some of them were not allowed any physical contact with their relatives present in the courtroom.
On 29 January 2024, the Deputy Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers described the recent arrest of journalists and media workers “as a measure for education and discipline” in a radio interview. He also emphasized Kyrgyzstan's commitment to free speech. This statement followed the President's earlier comments, labelling the detained journalists as “unprofessional bloggers who misuse social media and potentially threaten national security.”
On 7 February 2024, the President stated that freedom of speech is not under pressure, and that there is “active spread of information by NGOs and independent media that sow confusion by propagating things that do not correspond to mentality and traditions of the country”. As of 26 February 2024, reportedly, all complaints of the defence lawyers claiming violations of procedural rights of their clients have been rejected by the Ministry of Interior lead investigator and by the courts.
On 12 March 2024, the Pervomayskiy District Court of Bishkek held a short hearing to review the pre-trial detention of the detained media workers. Mr. Turdaliev, Mr. Orozbekov and Mr. Akunbekov were released under strict conditions including house arrest and promises not to leave the country. The pre-trial detention of the remaining journalists was extended for two more months by the court. Reportedly, the motion of the investigators to extend the pre-trial detention of the remaining media workers dated 6 March 2024 was not given to the media workers’ lawyers prior to the hearing. The lawyers will appeal the decision.


On 9 February 2024, the Oktyabrskiy District Court of Bishkek ruled to liquidate Kloop Media Foundation, satisfying the motion of the Bishkek City Prosecutors’ Office filed in August 2023.
During preceding court hearings on this civil case, the court examined testimonies of experts from the State Service for Forensic Expertise that were used as the basis of the Prosecutors Office’s claim to shut down Kloop Media Foundation. As was widely reported, these experts conducted initial expert reviews in the framework of the registered criminal case under Article 327 of the Criminal Code “Public calls for violent seizure of power”. These expert reviews were reportedly initially solicited by the SCNS. The same experts conducted the repeated forensic expert reviews upon the request of the Bishkek City Prosecutors’ Office voiced during the civil claim review on 12 December 2023. The court ordered a new linguistic and the repeated psychological-psychiatric expert examinations.
During the 27 January 2024 court hearing, lawyers of the Kloop Media Foundation claimed that under the Kyrgyz version of the Civil Code there were no legal grounds for the civil suit of the Prosecutors demanding the liquidation of the Kloop Media Foundation. The lawyers asked the court to send an official request for the interpretation of Article 96 part 2 para 3 of the Civil Code by the Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic. The judge rejected this motion.
During the 5 February 2024 hearing, two psychiatrists and two linguistic experts were questioned. Two authors of the linguistic expert review ordered by the court in December 2023, stated that they did not find in the articles of Kloop Media any calls inciting inferiority or aggression of one ethnic or social group towards the other. Reportedly, the testimonies of the linguistic experts concluded that there were no grounds for the initial criminal case.
One of the two questioned psychiatrists who had prepared the psychologicalpsychiatric expert examination stated that he had never authored the psychological-psychiatric expert conclusion, and that he was only a leader of the group of experts and only signed the expert conclusion. Thus, he claimed that he was not in a position to respond to the questions of the defence lawyer.
During the oral testimony of the second psychiatric expert, he stated that Kloop Media’s reporting was “socially irresponsible” and was “leading to increased mental illness within the country”. He also stated that “media in general was increasing mental illnesses in Kyrgyzstan”.
The hearing reportedly began at 4.15pm and lasted until 7.40pm, despite a motion filed by the Kloop Media Lawyers to postpone the hearing to align with the court’s official working hours. Furthermore, the judge allegedly did not warn the experts of criminal liability for perjury, stating that there was already a criminal liability pledge signed by them before and there was no need to repeat it at the trial.
At the start of the hearing on 9 February 2024, the Prosecutor filed a motion demanding to annul the recent re-registration of Kloop Media (this reregistration was done by the Ministry of Justice in December 2023, based on the application of Kloop Media Foundation and the renewed Charter with a new composition of founders), and to prohibit any further actions aimed at future re-registration of Kloop Media Foundation. The judge partially satisfied the motion of the Prosecutor, stating that the recent reregistration would stay in force; but any future re-registration should be prohibited.
During ensuing questioning of three psychologists (expert witnesses) one of them claimed that “Kloop Media received money from the West, and therefore was fulfilling the orders from the West” and that “in Kyrgyzstan, a secular state, there should be no criticism of the authorities”. All of these experts, when pressed by the Kloop Media’s lawyer, admitted that they had never read any of the Kloop Media’s reports.
During the same hearings, the representative of the Ministry of Justice reiterated that Kloop Media was registered as a foundation, not as a mass media outlet, and thus was not authorised to produce media content.
During both hearings on 5 and 9 February 2024, it was ascertained that none of the involved five experts who conducted a joint psychological-psychiatric expert examination possessed required official certificates from the Ministry of Justice. Moreover, none of the five questioned experts provided any statistical data or any hard evidence based on past research to confirm their claims and conclusions about the harmful effect of the Kloop Media articles on the Kyrgyz population. However, the Prosecutor maintained during both hearings that all the experts had given “clear responses to all the questions of the defence lawyers.”
Late on 9 February 2024, the judge ruled to liquidate Kloop Media Foundation as a public foundation under the Law “On Non-Commercial Organizations”; and appointed a tax officer of the Oktiabrskiy District of Bishkek’s Tax Service Department as an official liquidator. The lawyer of Kloop Media plans to file an appeal with Bishkek City Court. Kloop’s lawyers still have not received detailed minutes on the 9 February court session.
At the same time, the Bishkek Administrative Court is considering a case on the administrative claim of Kloop Media Foundation against two decisions from September 2023 ordered by the Ministry of Culture, Sport and Youth Policy to remove one article from the Kloop's website and to block the website itself under the Law “On the Protection from Unreliable (False) Information”. The Ministry of Culture invoked the Law on False Information following the complaint lodged by the SCNS that claimed that the Kloop Media’s article about alleged inhumane treatment of one of the detainees under the SCNS investigated cases was false and had undermined the SCNS reputation.
On 20 February 2024, preliminary hearings in this case were concluded. The judge granted the Ministry of Culture’s request to postpone proceedings in order to prepare its defence and adjourned the hearing until 18 March 2024.
Without wishing to prejudge the accuracy of the above allegations, we are concerned that the targeting of independent journalists and news outlets appear to come as a direct result of their independent and investigative reporting. We are concerned that the reported allegations take place in a context of a wider pattern of lawsuits and restrictions targeting independent media in Kyrgyzstan, which in turn has a chilling effect on journalists, independent media outlets and human rights defenders who fear they cannot exercise their rights to freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and association, and carry out their legitimate work free from intimidation or reprisals.
We are concerned that this latest bout of searches severely undermines media freedoms in the country, which has already been subject to legal reforms limiting freedom of expression, judicial harassment and searches against independent media, which we previously raised with your Excellency’s Government. (AL KGZ 5/2023, OL KGZ 4/2023, OL KGZ 3/2023, AL KGZ 3/2022, AL KGZ 1/2022). In this context, we welcome the recent decision by the President to withdraw the draft law “On the Mass Media” from Parliament for further revisions. We urge for full respect of international norms and standards related to freedom of expression, in the light of our previous communications, as well as recommendations from the OSCE/ODIHR and the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe.
In relation to the arrest and pre-trial hearings of the 10 aforementioned journalists associated with Temirov Live and Ait Ait Dese, we raise our concern over possible violations of international human rights law. We remind your Excellency’s Government of its obligations, specifically under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which states that: “Everyone charged with a criminal offence shall have the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law”(article 14[2]) and “It shall not be the general rule that persons awaiting trial shall be detained in custody, but release may be subject to guarantees to appear for trial” (article 9[3]). Regarding the circumstances of arrest and ongoing legal proceedings against the above-mentioned journalists, we remind your Excellency’s Government of its obligation under Article 14 to ensure that everyone shall be entitled to a fair and public hearing by a competent, independent and impartial tribunal established by law and everyone has the right to effective legal assistance.
We are also concerned about the confiscation of equipment from both 24.KG and Temirov Live offices during the above-mentioned searches, as this might lead to the disclosure of confidential sources and information. We are also concerned about the sealing of 24.KG offices and the subsequent denial of entry of their staff, making it very difficult for them to carry out their work.
Finally, we are concerned that the ruling to liquidate Kloop Media represents a serious blow to independent media in Kyrgyzstan. In addition to our previous concerns raised in AL KGZ 5/2023, we are concerned about the procedure applied, which does not seem to comply with the requirement of a due process.
In connection with the above alleged facts and concerns, please refer to the Annex on Reference to international human rights law attached to this letter which cites international human rights instruments and standards relevant to these allegations.
As it is our responsibility, under the mandates provided to us by the Human Rights Council, to seek to clarify all cases brought to our attention, we would be grateful for your observations on the following matters:

We would appreciate receiving a response within 60 days. Past this delay, this communication and any response received from your Excellency’s Government will be made public via the communications reporting website. They will also subsequently be made available in the usual report to be presented to the Human Rights Council.
Further, we would like to inform your Excellency’s Government that after having transmitted the information contained in the present communication to the Government, the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention may also transmit the case through its regular procedure in order to render an opinion on whether the deprivation of liberty was arbitrary or not. The present communication in no way prejudges any opinion the Working Group may render. The Government is required to respond separately to the allegation letter and the regular procedure.
While awaiting a reply, we urge that all necessary interim measures be taken to halt the alleged violations and prevent their re-occurrence and in the event that the investigations support or suggest the allegations to be correct, to ensure the accountability of any person(s) responsible for the alleged violations.

Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of our highest consideration.
Irene Khan
Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression
Matthew Gillett
Vice-Chair on communications of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention
Clement Nyaletsossi Voule
Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association
Mary Lawlor
Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders


In connection with the above-alleged facts and concerns, we would like to draw the attention of your Excellency’s Government to the following human rights standards: We would like to refer your Excellency’s Government to Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), acceded to by the Kyrgyz Republic on 7 October 1994, which guarantees the right to freedom of opinion and expression. Article 19 requires the States to guarantee the right to freedom of expression, including the right to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds. As interpreted by the Human Rights Committee in General Comment No. 34 (CCPR/C/GC/34), such information and ideas include, inter alia, political discourse, commentary on public affairs, discussion of human rights, and journalism (Paragraph 11). Free press and other media should be able to comment on public issues without censorship or restraint and to inform public opinion, and the public has a corresponding right to receive media output (Paragraph 13).
We would like to also remind your Excellency’s Government of Human Rights Council resolution 12/16 (A/HRC/RES/12/16), in which the Human Rights Council expresses its concern that violations of the rights to freedom of opinion and expression continue to occur, often with impunity, including arbitrary detention, torture, intimidation, persecution and harassment, threats and acts of violence, increased abuse of legal provisions on surveillance, search and seizure, and censorship against persons who exercise, seek to promote or defend these rights, including human rights defenders. In resolution 12/16, the Human Rights Council calls upon the States to respect and ensure the respect for these rights, take all necessary measures to put an end to violations of these rights, bring to justice those responsible and ensure that victims of violations have an effective remedy.
In this regard, as indicated by the Human Rights Committee, attacks against individuals for exercising their right to freedom of expression, including through arbitrary detention, torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and enforced disappearance is incompatible with the ICCPR.1 According to the Human Rights Committee in General Comment No. 352 and the jurisprudence of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, arrest or detention of an individual as punishment for the legitimate exercise of the rights guaranteed by the ICCPR, including freedom of opinion and expression, is arbitrary. We would like to further remind your Excellency’s Government that the right to challenge the lawfulness of detention before a court, protected under article 9 of the ICCPR, is a self-standing human right and a peremptory norm of international law, which applies to all forms of arbitrary deprivation of liberty.
Restrictions on the right to freedom of expression must be compatible with the requirements set out in article 19 (3), that is, they must be provided by law, pursue a legitimate aim, and be necessary and proportionate (a) For respect of the rights or reputations of others; (b) For the protection of national security or of public order (ordre public), or of public health or morals. The State has the burden of proof to demonstrate that any such restrictions are compatible with the Covenant. The Human Rights Committee recalled that the relationship between right and restriction and between norm and exception must not be reversed. Furthermore, the Human Rights Committee clarified that “penalization of a media outlet, publishers or journalist solely for being critical of the government or the political social system espoused by the government, can never be considered to be a necessary restriction of freedom of expression” (CCPR/C/GC/34, para 42).
Additionally, in her report A/HRC/50/29, the Special Rapporteur for the right to freedom of opinion and expression raised concern about the rise in the criminalisation of journalists including through laws that prohibit the criticism of state institutions or officials, negatively impacting media freedom and damaging democratic discourse and public participation. In this report, the Special Rapporteur emphasised “the societal relevance of independent, free and pluralistic news media – as a pillar of democracy, a tool to support accountability and transparency, and a means to sustain open deliberation and encourage the exchange of diverse views – underscores the importance of journalism as a public good. Journalists are not above the law, but by virtue of their function and the public interest in disclosure, they are entitled to specific legal protection. States are obliged not only to refrain from arbitrary restraints, but also to put in place legislative and regulatory measures in line with international human rights standards to enable journalists to carry out their work safely and without hindrance.”
The Human Rights Committee has held that “a free, uncensored and unhindered press or other media is essential in any society to ensure freedom of opinion and expression and the enjoyment of other Covenants rights” and that it constitutes “one of the corner stones of a democratic society”. Free, independent and pluralistic media are also crucial to achieve sustainable development. 4 There is a corresponding right of the public to receive media output. The press and other media should be able to comment freely on public issues without censorship. 5 States must ensure the independence and plurality of media, both traditional and online media, including by guaranteeing editorial freedom and ensuring that funding does not undermine the media`s independence. (CCPR/C/GC/34, para 40.)
Additionally, we would also like to recall that article 22 protects the right to freedom of association with others. As stated in a report by the Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association, States not only have a negative obligation to abstain from unduly interfering with the right of association but also have a positive obligation to facilitate and protect the right in accordance with international human rights standards (A/HRC/17/27, para. 66; and A/HRC/29/25/Add.1). This means ensuring that freedom of association is enjoyed by everyone, without discrimination on the basis of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status (article 2 (1) of the ICCPR).
Moreover, we would like to remind your Excellency’s Government of its obligations under Article 14 of the ICCPR, according to which, in the determination of any criminal charge against him, everyone shall be entitled to a fair and public hearing by a competent, independent and impartial tribunal established by law.
Furthermore, we bring to your attention the fundamental principles set forth in the Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, also known as the UN Declaration on Human Rights Defenders. In particular, we would like to refer to articles 1 and 2 of the Declaration which state that everyone has the right to promote and to strive for the protection and realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms at the national and international levels and that each State has a prime responsibility and duty to protect, promote and implement all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
We would like to draw particular attention to the following provisions of the Declaration:
- article 6 point a), which provides for the right to know, seek, obtain, receive and hold information about all human rights and fundamental freedoms;
- article 6 points b) and c), which provides for the right to freely publish, impart or disseminate information and knowledge on all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to study, discuss and hold opinions on the observance of these rights;
- article 12, paragraphs 2 and 3, which provides that the State shall take all necessary measures to ensure the protection of everyone against any violence, threats, retaliation, de facto or de jure adverse discrimination, pressure or any other arbitrary action as a consequence of his or her legitimate exercise of the rights referred to in the Declaration.
Finally, we draw your attention to the report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, At the heart of the struggle: human rights defenders working against corruption (A/HRC/49/49), in which the Special Rapporteur highlighted the targeting of journalists and bloggers working on anticorruption, as well as the trends of impunity for attacks against them. In this report, the Special Rapporteur calls on States to “Ensure that human rights defenders working against corruption are protected from being attacked, threatened, intimidated or criminalized for their work."
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/270664-un-special-procedures-sent-permanent-mission-kyrgyzstan-joint-allegation-letter-raising




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: On the road to gender equality: Kyrgyzstan continues to integrate gender-sensitive indicators into national strategies and plans
Content: 08 March 2024
Representatives of the National Statistical Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic, state bodies and non-governmental organizations collaboratively working on strategies for improving gender statistics in Kyrgyzstan. Photo: UN Women/Askat Chynaly.
From 5 to 7 March 2024, the National Statistical Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic, in collaboration with the UN Women Regional Office for Europe and Central Asia, convened a workshop on strategic planning for improving the production, analysis, and dissemination of gender statistics in Kyrgyzstan. The workshop brought together more than 30 representatives of state bodies and non-governmental organizations - members of an inter-agency working group on gender statistics.
Kyrgyzstan's national statistics system has made significant strides in producing 38 of the 51 indicators outlined in the UN Minimum Set of Gender Indicators. In a collaborative effort with UN Women and Partnership in Statistics for Development in the 21st Century (PARIS21), the National Statistical Committee conducted an assessment of gender statistics in the Kyrgyz Republic in 2021. The findings from this assessment played a crucial role in shaping the Medium-term Programme for Development of Official Statistics of the Kyrgyz Republic for 2022–2026. In September 2022, the Cabinet of Ministers of Kyrgyzstan approved a long-term National Strategy for Gender Equality until 2030 and its National Action Plan for 2022–2024. These policy documents outline specific measures aimed at standardizing national gender statistics and aligning indicators with international obligations (goal 13). These strategic documents aim to emphasize the importance of building a gender-sensitive statistical system and enhance reporting on the Sustainable Development Goals.
“Kyrgyzstan needs national standards on gender statistics in line with the international recommendations, which would guide the government institutions on streamlining the work to improving gender statistics,” underlined Marat Kalchabaev, the Referent of the Judicial Statistics Analysis Sector of the Supreme Court of the Kyrgyz Republic, during the workshop.
The three-day workshop was designed to establish a vision, strategic priorities, and objectives for enhancing the production, dissemination, and uptake of gender data. These are crucial components of the forthcoming National Gender Statistics Roadmap and Equality Indicators Framework, which will monitor the country’s progress towards gender equality. The application of design thinking tools during the workshop fostered a productive dialogue between data producers and users. This was achieved by cultivating empathy and collaboratively identifying solutions to enhance the processes of gender data production and use.
“Strategic planning of gender statistics is key to the effective production, dissemination, and use of data to inform decision-makers and close gender gaps through data-driven policies,” highlighted Sara Defomonti, Head of Directorate for Strategic Planning at the Italian National Institute of Statistics, UN Women International Consultant.
The workshop enhanced the inter-agency collaboration between the National Statistical Committee and other data producers and users of gender statistics in Kyrgyzstan. It also underscored the critical role of gender data in the formulation of key strategic documents in the realm of gender equality.
The event was organized as part of the UN Women regional programme on improving gender statistics in Europe and Central Asia “Making Every Woman and Girl Count”.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/262762-road-gender-equality-kyrgyzstan-continues-integrate-gender-sensitive-indicators-national




Date: 05 March 2024
Title: Mental health, digital health and human resources for health in focus during World Health Organization delegation’s visit to Kyrgyzstan
Content: 05 March 2024
A delegation from the World Health Organization's (WHO) Regional Office for Europe, led by Dr Natasha Azzopardi-Muscat, Director of the Division of Country Health Policies and Systems, visited Kyrgyzstan on February 29th for site visits and meetings with key partners on joint priorities for human resources for health, mental health and digital health.
FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 2024
Bishkek, KYRGYZSTAN – A delegation from the World Health Organization's (WHO) Regional Office for Europe, led by Dr Natasha Azzopardi-Muscat, Director of the Division of Country Health Policies and Systems, visited Kyrgyzstan on February 29th for site visits and meetings with key partners on joint priorities for human resources for health, mental health and digital health.
The delegation started with a site visit to the Family Medicine Centre in Alamedin rayon, Chuy oblast. The Centre has been testing a new programme for nurses that emphasizes the importance of increased involvement of patients in the management of their diabetes care, as well as in promoting nutrition and healthy lifestyles.
“Involving patients in their own treatment process has proven benefits. When patients are allowed to participate in monitoring and treatment, they become more responsible for their own condition, leading to better health outcomes”, said Dr Azzopardi-Muscat. “This is one of the key messages we continue to build on from last year’s high-level conference on trust and transformation for more resilient and sustainable health systems of the future.”
The delegation also met with Dr Mederbek Ismailov, First Deputy Minister of Health and Dr. Aijamal Shambetova, Deputy Minister of Health, to discuss the implementation of WHO’s new Country Cooperation Strategy in Kyrgyzstan, signed in November 2023. The discussion focused on human resources for health -retention, recruitment, management and training, mental health, and also on health financing and primary health care strengthening as the most effective approach to deliver health care services to people.
Digital health and the WHO Regional Office for Europe’s Flagship on Digitalization was the focus of the delegation’s meeting with Dr Bakyt Dzhangaziev, Deputy Minister on Digitalization, and Chingiz Beksultanov, Director of the Ministry of Health’s e-Health Centre. The meeting highlighted the role of technology in healthcare and explored opportunities for advancing digital health, as Kyrgyzstan is making important advancements in digital health with its ‘Sanarip MED’ digitalization programme.
“The ‘Sanarip MED’ program is a promising innovation, supporting the introduction of digital solutions into health services. With a proper approach, digitalization should significantly reduce administrative and reporting burdens for family doctors and family nurses while enhancing the quality of care”, emphasized Dr Liviu Vedrasco, WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
The visit concluded with a meeting between the WHO delegation and Ms Antje Grawe, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic. The discussion focused on collaborative efforts between WHO and the UN in addressing joint public health challenges, including in the area of digital health, and promoting sustainable development.
“WHO works alongside Kyrgyzstan as it continues to deliver on its commitments for health and well-being in line with the Roadmap for Health and Well-being in Central Asia. The Roadmap serves as a powerful health instrument, allowing countries to cooperatively respond to the intersecting challenges affecting them, and seizing opportunities for transformative change for their health systems”, said Dr. Azzopardi-Muscat.
This visit serves as a testament to the collaborative efforts between Kyrgyzstan, WHO and the UN system in promoting accessible, equitable, and high-quality healthcare for all.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/262296-mental-health-digital-health-and-human-resources-health-focus-during-world-health




Date: 21 December 2023
Title: UN Country Team expresses concern about the public exposure of women in anti-prostitution investigations, calls on the authorities to respect women’s dignity and rights.
Content: 21 December 2023
On behalf of the UN Country Team in Kyrgyzstan, UN Resident Coordinator Antje Grawe addressed relevant authorities of the Kyrgyz Republic in a letter expressing concern about the public dissemination of personal information and identities of women alleged to have engaged in prostitution. Close-up images of the women’s faces and documents were featured in a video widely published in the media, following State Committee for National Security operations at a number of locations in Bishkek City and the Chui region, reportedly identified as massage parlors and brothels.
Highlighting potential violations of the women’s rights to privacy, non-discrimination, to be presumed innocent and not to be subjected to degrading treatment, she also emphasized the need to protect potential victims and witnesses of serious criminal offences, such as trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution.
The UN Resident Coordinator called for a prompt review of the circumstances leading to the dissemination of the women’s images to prevent similar incidents in the future and to provide protection and support to affected women. She also urged the authorities to identify and uphold the rights of potential victims and witnesses of trafficking or exploitation of prostitution among affected women, and to facilitate the immediate removal of all images of the concerned women.
Background:
The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, after its review in November 2021 of the fifth periodic report of the Kyrgyz Republic on the implementation of the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), in its Concluding Observations welcomed the “directives approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the detection, identification and referral of victims of trafficking in persons and on the confidentiality of personal information of victims”. The Committee, inter alia, recommended the Kyrgyz Republic to “ensure the early identification of victims of trafficking including among disadvantaged groups of women, address the online recruitment of victims, and strengthen training for judges, prosecutors and law enforcement officers on victim identification and gender- and child-sensitive investigation and interrogation procedures”.
Link to the CEDAW Concluding Observations:
In Russian and English: https://tbinternet.ohchr.org/_layouts/15/treatybodyexternal/Download.aspx?symbolno=CEDAW%2FC%2FKGZ%2FCO%2F5&Lang=en
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/256470-un-country-team-expresses-concern-about-public-exposure-women-anti-prostitution




Date: 14 December 2023
Title: KYRGYZSTAN PLEDGES ON HUMAN RIGHTS IN GENEVA
Content: 14 December 2023
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan, 11 December – During the Human Rights 75 high-level event in Geneva, Kyrgyzstan, as a Member State of the United Nations, made pledges to take specific action to promote and protect human rights. As part of a year-long campaign initiated by the Office of the UN High Commissioner, Member States from across the world made pledges today to bring about concrete change towards greater enjoyment of human rights for all.
Kyrgyzstan pledged to:
*On the right to education - expanding access to quality, multilingual, inclusive education for children, especially children with disabilities, representatives of ethnic minorities and children in difficult life situations, as well as improving the educational infrastructure and environment.
*On women's rights - to ensure that the definitions of the types of crimes related to sexual violence are in line with the CEDAW and to take measures to prevent all forms of violence against women, including forced marriage.
*On the rights of people with disabilities - the adoption of the "Accessible Country" program, which includes programs for the rehabilitation of people with disabilities, the development of alternative methods of support for people with mental and psychosocial disorders, and the development of measures to combat violence against people with disabilities, aimed at granting access to public buildings and transport, creating favorable conditions for people with disabilities in political, social and cultural life.
*To fight corruption - to strengthen the potential of government officials, judges and law enforcement officers; intensifying the work on involving those responsible for corruption, including corruption in electoral processes.
*On children's rights - adoption of a family support plan, legal prohibition of corporal punishment of children, introduction of measures on positive parenting and non-violent upbringing of children, conducting regular educational activities on spreading and understanding the principles of the Convention on Children's Rights, strengthening punishment for crimes of sexual violence and sexual exploitation against children, supporting migrant children.
Live video from the Human Rights 75 high-level event is availbable at UN Web TV (translation in Russian is also available).
This year of activities in communities, countries and regions around the world has been both a fitting tribute as well as a forerunner to the Geneva high-level event on 11-12 December 2023.
During these two days, we are witnessing the culmination of all the dialogues, thematic consultations, multistakeholder recommendations, as well as the birth and growth of our pledging tree. The Human rights 75 high-level event is being convened by UN Human Rights and co-hosted by the Government of Switzerland. Participants include Member States, civil society organizations, cities and local governments, human rights defenders, parliamentary representatives, United Nations entities, academics, experts, young people and artists.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/255822-kyrgyzstan-pledges-human-rights-geneva




Date: 05 December 2023
Title: UNHCR is gravely concerned about the disappearance of an asylum-seeker from the Kyrgyz Republic.
Content: 05 December 2023
BANGKOK – UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is alarmed over the disappearance of an asylum-seeker in the Kyrgyz Republic and his subsequent refoulement and expresses concerns regarding the shrinking asylum space for those in need of international protection in the country.
During the night of 16 to 17 October, an asylum-seeker disappeared in Bishkek, the capital of the Kyrgyz Republic. The individual had applied for asylum and the General Prosecutor of the Kyrgyz Republic had rejected a request for extradition filed in relation to his case. Shortly before his scheduled departure to another country, the asylum-seeker was reportedly taken from his accommodation by individuals claiming to be law enforcement authorities.
UNHCR expressed grave concerns to the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic about his well-being following reports that he was sent back to his country of origin. The Agency requested the authorities to urgently investigate this case. Already in March of this year UNHCR had expressed serious concern about the extradition of another asylum seeker by the Kyrgyz Republic. These incidents occur in the context of a worrying decrease in refugee recognition.
The forced return of a person in need of international protection to a country where they may face serious harm constitutes a violation of the principle of non-refoulement enshrined in the 1951 UN Refugee Convention to which the Kyrgyz Republic is a signatory, as well as its national legislation on refugees. The principle of non-refoulement is the cornerstone of refugee protection enabling individuals forced to flee to find safety.
UNHCR reiterates calls on the Kyrgyz Republic to ensure that no person is expelled or returned against their will to countries where their life or freedom may be threatened on account of their race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion, and to ensure fair and efficient asylum procedures that recognise and protect refugees.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/254813-unhcr-gravely-concerned-about-disappearance-asylum-seeker-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 24 November 2023
Title: First CIS School meals forum in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Content: 24 November 2023
BISHKEK –Kyrgyz Republic hosts the first Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) School Meals Forum under the title «School feeding – a vector of general development» to share best practices in effective implementation of school meals programmes, which entails providing hot, diverse and nutrious meals to school children.
The event, initiated by the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Zhaparov, is aimed at exchanging experience in the field of school meals. The forum will allow discussing and finding solutions to the problems of improving the efficiency and quality of nutrition for schoolchildren, including through the involvement of parents and private businesses.
Thanks to the initiative of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic, the topic of school meals as a subject of common interest for the first time took an important place in a number of official events of the current presidency of the country in the CIS.
"The issue of school meals goes beyond simply providing a growing body with nutrients. It is also, as the experience of many countries shows, an effective tool of state support to agriculture and the development of local communities. For this reason, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic considers the issue of school meals not only as a social task, but also as a significant factor of investment and stimulating economic growth", said Edil Baisalov, deputy Chairperson of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The forum will be attended by the Heads of authorities of CIS member states and other interested countries, representatives of leading international institutions in this field, specialized education experts and the private sector.
The final stage of the forum will be the adoption of a Joint Declaration on the annual holding of the "International CIS School Meals Forum". It is expected that the forum will become a traditional platform for meetings and exchange of views on improving efficiency in the implementation of school meals programmes.
"The topic of nutrition of schoolchildren is undoubtedly relevant and will be of interest to the CIS member states, which are taking measures to ensure high-quality, safe and balanced nutrition. During the forum, representatives of line ministries will be able to present the experience of organizing school meals in their countries and make proposals for cooperation in this area in the CIS," said Denis Trefilov, Deputy Secretary General of the CIS.
"School meals a bedrock of educational opportunity ensuring that children have sufficient and quality nutrition to think, learn, and flourish intellectually. The school feeding program not only nurtures the human capital of today and tomorrow, but also lay foundations for prosperity of Kyrgyzstan's communities. This aligns with the Kyrgyz Government’s SDG Summit pledges to alleviate poverty and reduce inequalities," said Antje Grawe, the Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“The main goal of the national school meals programme is to provide primary school children with healthy hot meals, since it greatly contributes to an effective learning environment and improves academic performance of children,” said the Minister of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic, Dogdurkul Kendirbaeva. “Over the past years, school meals programme has generated employment opportunities and has become an important social safety net, especially for poor families living in rural areas” added the minister.
Since 2010, school meals programme is being successfully implemented in a number of CIS countries by the UN  World Food Programme (WFP), Mercy Corps, and other partners with financial support from the Governments,  donors and technical support of the Social and Industrial Foodservice Institute (SIFI).
“In this forum, we will have the opportunity to strengthen cooperation towards our common goal of improving the health and nutrition of school-aged children in the Kyrgyz Republic. WFP with partners will continue strengthening the country capacity on the national school meals programme to promote nutritious diets, emphasizing the strong connection between schools and local farmers, leading to more sustainable food systems,” said Kojiro Nakai, WFP Representative and Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic.
"School meals programmes help in solving many socio-economic problems. This includes strengthening the health of children, improving their education, supporting families and developing rural areas and local agricultural production. An integrated approach helps to achieve many sustainable development goals, from the fight against hunger to economic growth and strengthening partnership at the interstate level," said Vladimir Chernigov, President of the Russian Social and Industrial Foodservice Institute.
With the support of WFP and Mercy Corps, the National School Meals Programme in the country has introduced hot and nutritious meals to over 75% of schools in the country and reached approximately 500,000 primary school children. Every year the schools are provided with food and kitchen equipment; the infrastructure of school canteens is improved; and training for school cooks on the safe preparation of school meals is provided.

Press Release.
23 November 2023.
First CIS School meals forum in the Kyrgyz Republic.


UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/253776-first-cis-school-meals-forum-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 24 November 2023
Title: The annual campaign "16 Days of Activism to End Violence against Women" was launched in Kyrgyzstan.
Content: 24 November 2023
On 24 November 2023, the annual global campaign "16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence" was launched in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. The campaign begins on November 25, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and ends on December 10, International Human Rights Day.
The campaign aims to bring together all stakeholders, including the state, civil society organizations, international organizations, the private sector, the media and academia, to take joint action and measures to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls.
In his welcoming speech, Edil Baisalov, Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic, noted the changes in society: "What used to be a common occurrence, rather than a crime and taboo, has changed thanks to the sustainability and consistency of the campaign. The 16-day campaign against gender-based violence will remain our priority throughout the year, beyond the campaign period".
The campaign theme changes every year, and in 2023 it runs as: " Unite! Investing in the prevention of violence against women and girls". This theme highlights the urgent need to mobilize the whole of society to invest in preventive action to end gender-based violence at all levels.
Antje Grawe, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic emphasized: "Violence against women is a terrible violation of human rights, a public health crisis, a serious impediment to the sustainable development and well-being of women, their families and the communities in which they live. Unfortunately, it is a persistent, widespread phenomenon - and it is getting worse." Ms. Grave noted that "the 16-day campaign to end violence against women is not just an event, but a process that requires a long wait, dedication and commitment from everyone, as well as the government and society as a whole."
In Kyrgyzstan, the 16 Days Campaign to End Violence against Women and Girls calls for an inclusive approach with the support of all sectors - government bodies, financial institutions, the private sector and civil society - and the need to allocate budgets in line with the State's national and international obligations to prevent violence against women, since needs are more unmet.
Women’s safety and women empowerment are at the core of the EU’s external cooperation. In addition to substantive direct funding, we also make sure that all EU-funded projects are aligned with this approach. The EU-funded Spotlight Initiative has both helped Kyrgyzstan to adopt National Gender Equality Strategy as well as assisted more than 39,000 women and men to receive direct assistance and protection from gender-based violence. As the EU Delegation to Kyrgyzstan we remain committed to support and finance actions against gender based violence and to promote gender equality».
At the end of the event, Ms. Gulnara Baatyrova, Minister of Labor, Social Security and Migration of the Kyrgyz Republic, called on the heads of all government agencies and the public to contribute to the campaign and noted that preventing all forms of violence against women and girls requires much more effort and the support of the entire Kyrgyz society.
As part of the campaign, various events will be held throughout the country until the end of the year, and the campaign will conclude in Osh. Every person can become an ally/associate in promoting the prevention of gender-based violence through awareness raising and public advocacy. The actions of each of us are essential to ending violence in the country at all levels and in all sectors.
The national launch of the 16-day campaign is organized by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Jogorku Kenesh of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Ministry of Labor, Social Security and Migration, the UN System and UN Women in the Kyrgyz Republic with the support of the Delegation of the European Union to the Kyrgyz Republic.
For more information, please contact Ms. Gulayym Shigaybaeva, Communications Specialist of UN Women in the Kyrgyz Republic, by e-mail: gulaiym.shigaibaeva@unwomen.org or by phone: +996 552 201 234.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/253775-annual-campaign-16-days-activism-end-violence-against-women-was-launched-kyrgyzstan




Date: 24 November 2023
Title: Joint ADB, GIZ and UN Policy Brief "Tackling Air Pollution in Bishkek:  A Road Map to Cleaner Air".
Content: 24 November 2023
Air pollution reaches hazardous levels in Bishkek during wintertime, causing large adverse health and economic impacts. The drivers of air pollution are now clear: residential coal heating is the primary cause, followed by diesel vehicles.
This Brief summarizes the consensus around air pollution and its causes in Bishkek and proposes practical interventions to resolve this issue.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/253736-joint-adb-giz-and-un-policy-brief-tackling-air-pollution-bishkek-road-map-cleaner-air




Date: 17 November 2023
Title: Regional Director of WHO Regional Office for Europe Dr. Hans Henri P. Kluge visited the FDG in Ak-Ordo residential area.
Content: 17 November 2023
Bishkek, KYRGYZSTAN – “I am very impressed by the diligence and dedication of the Kyrgyz health workers to help and care for people and protect children and adults from various diseases through vaccination. Today I was very happy to see residents of Bishkek being vaccinated. It’s important to remember that vaccination is a simple, safe, and effective way to protect against many infectious diseases”, said Dr. Hans Henri P. Kluge, regional director of the WHO Regional Office for Europe, during a joint field visit with the Deputy Minister of Health of Kyrgyzstan, Ms. Bubuzhan Arykbaeva and the WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan, Dr. Liviu Vedrasco.
The guests today visited the Family Doctors Group (FDG) in the Ak-Ordo settlement to familiarize themselves with the work of public health at the primary healthcare level.
The health workers from the Ak-Ordo FDG in turn shared with the guests about their daily work, as well as the measles vaccination activities.
The guests talked to parents and children and discussed the provision of medical services at the FDG level in general and immunization services. During the visit, the Director of the Republican Center for Immunoprophylaxis (RCI) Gulbara Ishenapysova elaborated on the cooperation with WHO and the results of the immunization campaign initiated in response to the measles outbreak in a number of regions since September 2023.
‘An important step in Kyrgyzstan's national immunization program was to ensure access to vaccination for unvaccinated children and urban migrants in newly built settlements around Bishkek. A WHO-supported analysis of the legislation led to a change in the laws, allowing children of internal migrants to receive vaccinations at their place of residence, which ensures timely immunization in accordance with the national calendar,’ highlighted Bubuzhan Arykbaeva, the Deputy Minister of Health of Kyrgyzstan.
At the end of the visit, the guests expressed their gratitude to the health workers for their unwavering dedication and professionalism.
Regional Director of WHO Regional Office for Europe Dr. Hans Henri P. Kluge visited the FDG in Ak-Ordo residential area
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2023.
For questions, please contact:
Almaz Zhumaliev,
WHO Communication Officer
Phone: +996 550 701 712
Email: zhumalieva@who.int

Zhyldyz Aigerchinova,
Press Secretary, Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic
Phone: +996 556 303 086
Email: pressa.mz@gmail.com
***
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/252975-regional-director-who-regional-office-europe-dr-hans-henri-p-kluge-visited-fdg-ak-ordo




Date: 14 November 2023
Title: The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic signed a 7-year Country Cooperation Strategy for 2024–2030.
Content: 14 November 2023
Bishkek, KYRGYZSTAN – Today, a landmark event occurred as the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic signed the first 7-year Country Cooperation Strategy (hereinafter referred to as the Strategy) until 2030.
The signing ceremony was attended by the WHO Regional Director for Europe, Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan Dr. Liviu Vedrasco, and Minister of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic Dr. Alymkadyr Beishenaliev. During the ceremony, the priorities of the new Strategy, latest achievements of Kyrgyzstan in the health sector, and further steps to strengthen cooperation between WHO and Kyrgyzstan were discussed.
The new Strategy includes three strategic directions and seven priority areas.
Particular attention will be paid to the issues of cardiovascular diseases, mental health, emergency response, antimicrobial resistance, environmental health and chemical safety, attracting human resources to rural areas and data digitalization.
The Strategy also places emphasis on strengthening primary health care and improving access to health services in areas such as HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, immunization and maternal, newborn and child health.
This Strategy will be aligned with the National Health Development Program until 2030 «A healthy person is a prosperous country».
“The Country Cooperation Strategy we are signing today is truly innovative. It will not only strengthen our work on health and well-being in Kyrgyzstan in 7 key areas over the next 7 years, but will also showcase the country’s role beyond its borders in advancing initiatives including the Health in the Mountains Agenda, the Global Initiative on Childhood Cancer, and the Roadmap for Health and Well-being in Central Asia, 2022-2025,” said Dr Hans Henri P. Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe.
«We are confident that the new stage of our cooperat
ion, marked by the signing of this Strategy, will play an important role in the development of the health system of Kyrgyzstan and will ensure the appropriate quality of care for the citizens of our country», stated Dr. Alymkadyr Beishenaliev, Minister of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic signed a 7-year Country Cooperation Strategy for 2024–2030
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2023.
For questions, please contact:
Almaz Zhumaliev,
WHO Communication Officer
Phone: +996 550 701 712
Email: zhumalieva@who.int

Zhyldyz Aigerchinova,
Press Secretary, Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic
Phone: +996 556 303 086
Email: pressa.mz@gmail.com
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/252663-world-health-organization-who-and-ministry-health-kyrgyz-republic-signed-7-year-country




Date: 01 November 2023
Title: The UN Democracy Fund’s call for proposals.
Content: 01 November 2023
This year UNDEF particularly welcomes projects that increase civic space for climate action with linkages to the following focus area:
• Rule of law and human rights
• Women’s leadership
• Youth engagement
• Strengthening civil society interaction with government
• Media and freedom of information
• Electoral processe
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/251178-un-democracy-fund%E2%80%99s-call-proposals




Date: 01 November 2023
Title: The first National Action Plan for Health Security (NAPHS) in the Kyrgyz Republic for 2024–2030 developed.
Content: 01 November 2023
Bishkek, KYRGYZSTAN - Today, the National Action Plan 2030 for Health Security in the Kyrgyz Republic is presented in Kyrgyzstan. The Plan is the first of its kind and was drafted with the guidance of the World Health Organization.
This plan was developed by national and international experts and representatives of different ministries and departments after the Joint External Evaluation of Core Capacities under the International Health Regulations (IHR) in July 2023.
This plan provides a clear roadmap, outlining a specific list of activities to be implemented and the steps and resources needed to achieve health security goals.
This level of detail ensures that our approach is rather practical as well as strategic, and will ensure the highest level of preparedness to manage any potential health crisis in the country, while also serving as a platform for donor coordination and resource mobilization.
"We are at a significant stage on our way to a healthier and safer future for the Kyrgyz Republic. This collective work and partnership is an example of how joint efforts can lead to significant achievements in the field of health. We are proud of our achievements and are confident that our cooperation will continue to contribute to strengthening the safety and health of all citizens," said Bybyjan Arykbayeva, Deputy Minister of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Dr. Liviu Vedrasco, WHO Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic, emphasized the importance of this Plan: “This Plan is a great joint effort that embodies cooperation, transparency, and a clear vision for the future of health in Kyrgyzstan. This is a testament to our dedication to ensuring the well-being of the citizens of Kyrgyzstan and a sustainable healthcare system for all.”
For media inquiries please contact:
Almaz Zhumaliev
WHO Communications Officer
Phone: +996 550 701 712
Email mail: zhumalieva@who.int

Zhyldyz Aigerchinova
Spokesperson, Ministry of Health
Phone: +996 556 303 086
Email mail: pressa.mz@gmail.com
***
NOTE TO EDITORS:
The National action plan for the health safety of the population of the Kyrgyz Republic:
Informed by the State Program for Population Health and Health System Development 2019–2030, the State Party's Annual Self-Assessment Report 2022 (SPAR), the Joint External Evaluation 2023 (JEE), and the Strategic Risk Assessment Tool 2022 (STAR).
The Implementation of the plan is scheduled for the next 7 years: from January 1, 2024, to December 31, 2030.


The first National Action Plan for Health Security (NAPHS) in the Kyrgyz Republic for 2024–2030 developed.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/251275-first-national-action-plan-health-security-naphs-kyrgyz-republic-2024%E2%80%932030-developed




Date: 18 October 2023
Title: "Water is life. Water is food." Kyrgyz Republic will celebrate the World Food Day with several events
Content: 18 October 2023
October 16, 2023
Bishkek – Kyrgyz Republic is celebrating the World Food Day 2023, one of the most popular international days in the UN calendar, which is held in more than 50 languages and in more than 150 countries. The date is intended to draw public attention to issues of food security and nutrition, as well as the transition to more sustainable, inclusive and resilient to external influences agri-food systems.
To celebrate the World Food Day in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic, together with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), is organising an art exhibition and an agricultural fair-exhibition.
World Food Day is celebrated annually on October 16 and coincides with the founding day of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), which was established in 1945. This year, the theme is "Water is life. Water is food. Leave no one behind" to once again draw attention to the important role of water for human health and the environment, as well as for food production.
According to FAO, currently 2.4 billion people live in countries experiencing water scarcity. There are many small farmers among them, including women. About 600 million people, whose lives depend at least partially on systems for the production of food products from water resources, suffer from the effects of pollution, ecosystem degradation, unsustainable practices and climate change.

"We all need to stop taking water for granted and start improving the ways it is used in everyday life," said Kuvatbek Bapayev, International Technical Adviser at the FAO Representative Office in Kyrgyzstan. "FAO calls for action on water during the World Food Day and all other days. We must learn to produce more food, fiber, animal feed and biofuels with less water, ensuring equitable water allocation, protecting our water systems for food production and respecting the principle that "no one should be left behind.””
The principle of "Leave no one behind" implies simultaneous work in many areas.
“In the face of unprecedented challenges, we must tackle the root causes of food insecurity while amplifying the voices of smallholder farmers and rural communities to shield them from the impact of the climate crisis”, stated Kojiro Nakai, Representative and Country Director of the UN WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic. “WFP remains unwavering in our commitment to empowering smallholder farmers, strengthening food systems, and ensuring equitable access to nutritious diets. Through asset creation projects focusing on irrigation systems and water pipes, we strive to bring food and water back to vulnerable communities, and our skills development projects serve as engines of job creation and income-generation.”
UN agencies, together with the Ministry of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic, have joined forces to hold several awareness-raising events in the country dedicated to World Food Day, designed to promote dialogue and discussions on the importance of rational water use among relevant stakeholders, including youth, farmers, small producers, representatives of public organizations, politicians, agricultural investors and scientists.
On 17 October, an art exhibition " The path to the universe begins from the village" at the Kyrgyz National Museum of Fine Arts named after Gapar Aitiyev will open its doors to the public. Paintings and sculptures from the museum's collection on agricultural topics will be presented at the exhibition.
The exhibition will demonstrate works of art as an important historical source, showing the development of agriculture sector in Kyrgyzstan, and will invite the public to ponder on the importance of managing water for future prosperity.
"Today, the Ministry is building a policy in the field of planning and regulating water use on the basis of scientific knowledge and objective data, innovation and intersectoral coordination, developing and implementing new technologies," said Askarbek Janybekov, Minister of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic. “Together with other measures, this activity is designed to encourage farmers and the private sector to participate in the implementation of integrated solutions aimed at optimising water use and preserving Kyrgyzstan's water resources and for this purpose, state banks issue farmers a loan at 6% for leasing drip irrigation equipment and sprinkler system. A significant increase in the funds allocated from the republican budget for the maintenance of the irrigation fund will solve problems with the poor condition of irrigation channels. Major repairs of pumping stations, reservoirs, concreting and cleaning of siltation of inter-farm channels continue to this day. The work carried out will reduce water losses and increase the efficiency of inter-farm channels, which, in turn, will increase the volume of water for irrigation."
On October 20, the "old" square of the capital will host the already traditional exhibition-fair "Agrotechexpo-2023" and “Organic expo 2023”. The event is designed not only to support farmers, but also to expand the horizons of agricultural production in order to ensure sustainable agriculture, food security and nutrition. In addition, during the fair, residents and guests of the capital will have the opportunity to see and purchase organic products of farmers.
World Food Day is also an occasion to reflect on what has been done and what remains to be done to solve the global problem of ridding humanity of hunger, malnutrition and poverty. By increasing the production of food and other important agricultural products, we must reduce water consumption, ensure equitable distribution of water resources and preserve aquatic food systems, while ensuring compliance with the principle "Leave no one behind."
Together we can make a difference!
"Water is life. Water is food." Kyrgyz Republic will celebrate the World Food Day with several events.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/249785-water-life-water-food-kyrgyz-republic-will-celebrate-world-food-day-several-events




Date: 05 September 2023
Title: EU-UN Spotlight initiative shows promising results on ending violence against women and girls and calls for sustained action building on achievements.
Content: 05 September 2023
September 5, 2023
Bishkek, KYRGYZSTAN. On 5 September, the joint EU-UN Spotlight Programme organized a closing event, marking the end of the four-year Spotlight Initiative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The event was co-hosted by the Vice Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers, H.E. Mr. Edil Baisalov, the UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Antje Grawe and the EU Ambassador and Head of Delegation, H.E. Ms. Marilyn Josefson and brought together representatives of State institutions, implementing partners, survivors of gender-based violence, civil society and development partners including UN agencies.
The Spotlight Initiative is a global, multi-year partnership between the European Union and the United Nations to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls. Launched in 2020 in Kyrgyzstan, it represents an unprecedented national effort to address sexual and gender-based violence comprehensively across six interlinked pillars: policies and legislation; institutions; prevention; services; data, and women's movements and civil society organizations.
The Spotlight Initiative is responding to all forms of violence against women and girls, with a particular focus on domestic and family violence, sexual harassment, sexual and gender-based violence and harmful practices such as bride abduction and child marriage.
Over the three years of the initiative, significant results have been achieved in strengthening laws, policies, and institutions, prevention work, survivor-centric service provision, improving data and empowering women's movements.
With the technical support of the Spotlight Initiative, two fundamental strategies were adopted: the National Strategy for Achieving Gender Equality until 2030 and the National Action Plan 2022-2024. The Programme has also supported the Parliament in strengthening relevant legislation, in particular the Laws related to the detention of perpetrators, alimony, and State-guaranteed free legal aid, among others. The Programme has assisted in setting up temporary crisis centres and mobile groups during the COVID-19 pandemic and supported the launch of a free legal aid hotline (114) and other survivor-centric prevention and response initiatives.

H.E. Edil Baisalov, Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic said on the occasion that the “Spotlight Initiative leaves its country-wide footprint that needs to be maintained and scaled up, collective efforts on legal and policy reform, transformative prevention, and provision of survivor-centric services should be continued alongside broader country to ensure gender equality and women empowerment.”
Ms. Antje Grawe, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic commented on further plans for co-operation:
"The United Nations takes pride in collaborating closely with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, the EU, and other partners. Our joint efforts supported the Kyrgyz Government and society in tackling entrenched gender inequalities, strengthening policy frameworks, and establishing safe, empowering spaces for women and girls. As a multi-stakeholder program that harnesses the specialized skills of various UN agencies, the Spotlight Initiative serves as a powerful tool for strengthening UN development system reforms. The UN system stands ready to further build on the work done to effectively combat all forms of gender-based violence."
H.E. Marilyn Josefson, Ambassador of the European Union to Kyrgyzstan said: "Human rights and gender equality are at the heart of European Union’s external relations and development cooperation.
Addressing the root causes that hinder gender equality is a key issue for all EU-funded and co-funded project worldwide.
Therefore, the EU has invested EUR 500 million to support Spotlight Initiative at global scale, of which approximately USD 6.7 million was allocated to the programme in Kyrgyzstan. Over the past three years, the programme has achieved progress in all of its six founding pillar. Through its multidimensional activities, it has helped around 39,000 people in Kyrgystan, women and girls and men and boys to receive protection from violence and seek help.
The legislative framework has been improved, the institutions for combating gender-based violence have been strengthened, violence prevention and norms change programmes have begun to operate, services for the victims are now more easily available and are more substantive. Data collection on incidences of gender violence is now more systematically recorded and is being published and women and civil society movements have been strengthened.
I am also pleased that the Spotlight Initiative programme has played a significant role in advancing the progress of the adoption of a new Gender Equality Strategy in Kyrgyzstan and supported the creation of the necessary means to ensure its implementation”.
The Spotlight Initiative brought together five UN agencies operating in the Kyrgyz Republic - the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), UN Women, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), as well as international donors and civil society organisations.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/244757-eu-un-spotlight-initiative-shows-promising-results-ending-violence-against-women-and-girls




Date: 04 September 2023
Title: National consultations in preparation of Kyrgyzstan’s commitments at the upcoming SDG Summit reconfirm strong commitment to the SDGs and the readiness for joint action of all stakeholders.
Content: 04 September 2023
National consultations in preparation of the upcoming SDG Summit.
Bishkek, September 4 – Today, the Kyrgyz Government hosted national consultations to shape Kyrgyzstan's commitments for the upcoming Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Summit* in New York on 18-19 September 2023.
Ms. Antje Grawe, the UN Resident Coordinator, on behalf of the United Nations Country Team in the Kyrgyz Republic, commended the Kyrgyz Government for its proactive approach in identifying SDG accelerators and following up on national commitments taken over the past years related to poverty reduction, education, climate change, the promotion of a green economy, food security, human rights and gender equality, among other. She also commended the engagement of multiple stakeholders, including civil society, the private sector, and development partners in the identification of SDG commitments, which underscores Kyrgyzstan's dedication to both achieving the SDGs by 2030 and the creation of an enabling environment for SDG progress.
Kyrgyzstan’s integration of SDGs into national policies and strategies, such as the National Development Strategy 2040 and the National Development Programme 2026, reflects the country's recognition of the SDGs as integral to its long-term development. Its commitments have been evident in its first Voluntary National Review and the establishment of a National SDG Coordinating Committee and an equivalent in Parliament. Notably, Kyrgyzstan has made significant progress in numerous areas since the adoption of the SDGs in 2015. The Government's envisaged focus on the reduction of poverty and inequalities, education system transformation and the promotion of an inclusive green economy including climate resilience aligns with the objective of leaving no one behind.
The UN in Kyrgyzstan remains committed to continue to provide support to building a more sustainable and equitable future for all.
* https://www.un.org/en/conferences/SDGSummit2023
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/244580-national-consultations-preparation-kyrgyzstan%E2%80%99s-commitments-upcoming-sdg-summit-reconfirm




Date: 21 August 2023
Title: Seminars on the learning of harmonious relations  in family and society kicked off in Batken
Content: 21 August 2023
The series of seminars start today within the framework of the "Women in Batken lead social cohesion for peace and development” project. Aimed at strengthening social cohesion and development of Batken region it is in line with the national priorities of the country.
Leilek, August 21, 2023 – The series of seminars start today within the framework of the "Women in Batken lead social cohesion for peace and development” project. Aimed at strengthening social cohesion and development of Batken region it is in line with the national priorities of the country.
With the leading role of women of Leilek and Batken districts, the project will apply social innovative technologies that contribute to the restoration of a social cohesion and positive environment in the pilot communities, including psychosocial assistance to border guards’ families.
A series of gender action learning systems (GALS) workshops is planned as an innovative methodology. They are based on a system of exploring and defining gender-sensitive actions and aimed at strengthening and improving the dynamics of relationships within the family and society.
"Participants will be able to re-think peace and security issues from the perspective of their personal experience, worldview and family value system in these workshops. The methodology consists of three modules allowing to relate the interests of personal life with the public priorities of peace, good neighborhood, and unity of all community members," - says Gulzhan Niyazalieva, Programme Coordinator of UN Women Country Office in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Gulnaz and Rakhat were among the first 2,500 women and 1,600 men to participate in GALS training at the community level in Chui and Naryn regions in 2021. After the training, the spouses reviewed roles, values and relationship in the family based on the principles of respect for the rights of each family member.
"The atmosphere in our family has greatly improved thanks to better communication and equal distribution of family responsibilities," says Gulnaz. "Now I have got some free time to pursue dream of running my own business, which has significantly increased our family income.”
Women and men find a way towards more harmonious relationships in the family by discussing roles and responsibilities, which also contributes to positive changes in the community.
The first GALS workshop is taking place from 21st to 24th of August in Leilek district of Batken region, with the second and third modules to be held in September and November, 2023.
***
About the project
"Women in Batken lead social cohesion for peace and development” project funded by UK International Development from the UK government will be implemented by the UN Women in the Kyrgyz Republic in Suu-Bashy, Sumbula and Leilek LSGs from August 2023 till March 2024.
For more information, please contact the Program Coordinator of UN Women Country Office in the Kyrgyz Republic, Gulzhan Niyazalieva at gulzhan.niiazalieva@unwomen.org or by phone: +996 770 988916, +996772558009 (WhatsAp) or Communications and Advocacy Specialist, Gulayim Shigaibaeva at gulaiym.shigaibaeva@unwomen.org or by phone: +996 552 201234.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/242922-seminars-learning-harmonious-relations-family-and-society-kicked-batken




Date: 18 August 2023
Title: Empowering Peace with Your I/NGO: Take Action Now!
Content: 18 August 2023
Call for Proposals for Rapid Response Window I/NGO Partners
Empowering Peace with Your I/NGO: Take Action Now!
Are you an I/NGO actively engaged with women peacebuilders and women’s rights civil society organizations?
This is your golden opportunity to lead the charge against the various barriers impeding women’s active roles and contributions in peace processes.
Don't miss out – submit your application today and become an agent of change, dedicated to dismantling the diverse hurdles obstructing women's influence and participation in peace processes and the vital implementation of peace agreements.
An information session will be organized with prospective applicants on 30 August 2023 at 3 pm Central European Time. Register your interest here.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/242663-empowering-peace-your-ingo-take-action-now




Date: 09 August 2023
Title: CALL FOR APPLICATIONS: Interagency Community Outreach and Communication Fund on Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse  Deadline: 31 August 2023
Content: 09 August 2023
The launch of the fourth round of the Interagency Community Outreach and Communication Fund on Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA).
UNHCR and ICVA are proud to announce the launch of the fourth round of the Interagency Community Outreach and Communication Fund on Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA).
Since its launch in 2020, the PSEA Outreach Fund has been met with immense interest from NGOs, community-based organisations, safeguarding experts and other humanitarian actors involved in PSEA activities, with more than 3,500 grant applications received from NGOs worldwide, operating in all regions and humanitarian contexts. All eligible applications were reviewed and scored by an interagency steering group of PSEA experts, which in 2022 included representatives from IOM, UNICEF, Care International, World Vision International and the Communicating with Disaster Affected Communities (CDAC) Network, as well as ICVA and UNHCR. Since 2020, 49 projects have been supported through the Fund. You can read more about the projects here. The deliverables created through the PSEA Fund projects are available and can be accessed on the Deliverables Database.
Raising community-awareness on the risks of sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA) by aid workers and available reporting channels is critical to preventing SEA, as well as to ensuring that those affected know where and how to safely report SEA when it does take place. Local stakeholders have noted the need for effective, updated information, education and communication materials on PSEA that are tailored to local cultural contexts, operational realities, the groups that are most at risk, and which take into account aspects like languages, literacy, age and capacity.
To support NGOs in meeting these needs, the PSEA Fund will provide rapid, targeted financial support to NGOs to develop and disseminate PSEA outreach and communication materials, and to make available to all IASC members and the wider sector the materials developed through the Fund for their further use or adaptation.
The online application form can be accessed on the PSEA Outreach Fund website under the Call for Applications section. The online application form is available in English, French and Spanish. In order to change the language of the application form, open the link and choose the language from the drop-down menu located on the upper right-hand corner.
Application deadline is 31 August 2023 COB CEST.
The selection of grantees will be carried by a Steering Group of experts from NGOs and UN agencies.
In case of questions, please contact: PSEAfund@icvanetwork.org.
Applications sent via email will not be considered, please apply using the online application form on the PSEA Fund website.https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=Ln70_cqdYEm33kihFhHGncOqiobhpFBFoUOb4c5_GtBUOENDSkQ0REUzOEQxREk5ODVQQzRBS1dZNi4u
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/241171-call-applications-interagency-community-outreach-and-communication-fund-protection-sexual




Date: 18 July 2023
Title: The Government and the UN review results of the EU-UN Spotlight Initiative Programme for the Prevention of Violence Against Women and Girls
Content: 18 July 2023
The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and the United Nations review results of the EU-UN Spotlight Initiative Programme for the Prevention of Violence Against Women and Girls
BISHKEK, July 18, 2023 – On 17 July, the National Steering Committee (NSC) of the EU-UN Spotlight Initiative was convened to review the results achieved so far and to agree on this year’s activities under the three-year country programme aimed to prevent violence against women and girls in Kyrgyzstan and to protect survivors.
The NSC, which is co-chaired by Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers, Mr. Edil Baisalov and the United Nations Resident Coordinator (UNRC), Antje Grawe, and is composed of members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the EU Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic, Heads of UN Agencies implementing the programme and civil society representatives, also discussed how to sustain the progress achieved at various levels so far as the Programme will end in 2023.
The Programme, which has received funding from the European Union (EU) and the UN, is implemented at the national and sub-national levels to strengthen legislative, legal and policy frameworks for the effective prevention of Gender Based Violence (GBV) and to institutionalize mechanisms to protect and support survivors of violence. Since its launch in 2020, the Programme has supported the development of the National Strategy on Gender Equality until 2030 and the National Action Plan 2022-2024 as well as their expansion to the local level; strengthened the protection of the rights of women and girls affected by violence, including by facilitating access to free legal aid for survivors of violence and the opening of a free legal aid hotline (114); and supported the establishment of crisis centers in Bishkek and in 12 selected municipalities of Naryn, Osh and Chui oblasts, among other.
Commending the Government and other State institutions including Parliament and law enforcement institutions, the UN agencies, the EU and civil society partners for their respective leadership and contributions, the UNRC emphasized the importance of the survivor-centric and human-rights based approach and expressed her hope for continued attention by all concerned stakeholders to ensure the sustainability of the achievements: “The successful prevention of gender-based violence and the protection of women and girls from the devastating impact of this scourge requires a long-term political and financial investment and a collaborative effort of all stakeholders across institutions involving all segments of the society”.  The EU Ambassador, H.E. Ms. Marilyn Josefson stated, “As the European Union we are encouraged that the Spotlight Initiative Programme in Kyrgyzstan has achieved progress in all six thematic pillars; and that with its support the Government in October last year adopted the new Gender Equality strategy running until 2030. I would like to congratulate the Government of Kyrgyzstan, our UN-partners and implementing Civil Society Organisations for their valuable efforts to accelerate actions that counter and prevent Gender-Based violence as well as promote Gender Equality. The EU Delegation to Kyrgyzstan stands ready to continue the fruitful cooperation with our Spotlight partners, the Government of Kyrgyzstan, the UN and civil society organisations also on new initiatives to ensure that the collaborative work on countering gender based violence and promoting gender equality is further enhanced”.
Background on the Global EU-UN Spotlight Initiative: Cognizant of the significance of gender equality and the importance of adherence to basic human rights for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and mindful of the negative impact of Gender Based Violence (GBV) in this regard, the EU-UN Global Spotlight Initiative was launched in 2020 to support countries in addressing root causes for GBV and develop policies and strategies to eliminate GBV and support survivors of this human rights violation.
Kyrgyzstan was selected as one of the 30 countries in the world to implement the Spotlight Initiative, with a focus on women and girls, especially those who are most vulnerable, including survivors of violence or women and girls subjected to violence, harmful practices of forced child marriage and "ala-kachuu". It supports the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in strengthening its efforts aimed at eliminating GBV and protecting survivors of violence at policy, legal, strategy and operational levels.
The three-year Programme is implemented with the financial support of the EU (6,71 million USD) and UN agencies (1,1 million USD) with the direct participation of five UN agencies, namely  the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), UN Women (UNW), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). Around 40 civil society organisations have worked with the Government and the UN in implementing the Programme.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/239737-government-and-un-review-results-eu-un-spotlight-initiative-programme-prevention-violence




Date: 05 June 2023
Title: World Environment Day: Kyrgyzstan signs Declaration on Children, Youth, and Climate Action
Content: 05 June 2023
Today, the United Nations system in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Ministry of Natural Resources, Ecology, and Technical Oversight, environmental activists, and volunteers joined to mark World Environment Day in an event held at the Kyrgyz National University. It aimed to inspire individuals, the private sector, and government institutions in Kyrgyzstan to take action towards a more sustainable future and combat plastic pollution.
Under the theme of fighting plastic pollution, the global community on this day acknowledged the urgent need to address this critical environmental issue. Government agencies and citizens of Kyrgyzstan joined this call underlining the importance of adopting environmentally friendly practices, reduce waste, and conserve natural resources.
At the event, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ecology, and Technical Oversight signed the Declaration on Children, Youth, and Climate Action, making Kyrgyzstan the thirty-ninth country and the second country in the Central Asian region to join it and pledging to ensure that priorities for children and youth are included in climate action.
"Dear friends, protecting the environment is our shared responsibility. We cannot remain passive observers and wait for someone else to resolve the problem. Today, I call on each of you to take an active part in the fight against plastic pollution. Let's build an environmentally friendly future for us and our future generations together," emphasized Turgunbaev Melis Zhusupzhanovich, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ecology, and Technical Supervision of the Kyrgyz Republic in his speech.
UN Resident Coordinator Antje Grawe in her opening remarks noted that Kyrgyzstan is one of the most climate-vulnerable countries in the region. She pointed out that the scale and frequency of natural disasters associated with climate change have increased 1.5 times over the past 12 years, impacting people's lives, the economy, and the natural habitat. "It is critical to approach climate change, considering its cascading impact on the lives of people, the economy, and biodiversity, and not let it aggravate existing inequalities, hitting hardest those who are poor and vulnerable, especially women and children in rural areas," she stated.
The UNRC called on youth to actively engage in climate action to address these interconnected challenges by promoting solutions that prioritize the needs of marginalized communities, ensure a just transition to renewable energy, and address the disproportionate impacts of climate change on vulnerable populations.
The event featured various a photo exhibition, an art installation, workshops and activities aimed at promoting sustainable practices and raising awareness about the importance of collective action. Participants attended workshops on recycling old clothes into soft toys, transforming plastic into household items, as well as engaging in art classes and other activities related to plastic recycling and sustainable practices.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/234898-world-environment-day-kyrgyzstan-signs-declaration-children-youth-and-climate-action




Date: 30 May 2023
Title: Introductory Meeting with Newly Appointed Ombudsperson (Akyikatchy) Dzhamilya Dzhamanbaeva
Content: 30 May 2023
On 30 May 2022, UN Resident Coordinator Antje Grawe and UN Human Rights Central Asia Regional Representative ad interim Fabio Piana met with the newly appointed Ombudsperson Dzhamilya Dzhamanbaeva. They discussed the vision and plans of the new Akyikatchy, including steps envisaged to bring the Akyikatchy Institute – the national human rights institution (NHRI) of the Kyrgyz Republic -  fully in line with the Paris and Belgrade Principles, as recommended by the Global Alliance of NHRIs in 2012.
“An independent, pluralistic, accessible and effective Ombudsperson Institute that implements its mandate to promote and protect human rights with necessary financial and human resources, in line with the Paris Principles, is an essential pillar of the human rights protection system in Kyrgyzstan, in line with Kyrgyzstan’s pledge as candidate for the Human Rights Council and recommendations of UN Human Rights Mechanisms”, underlined Antje Grawe, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic. She noted that the UN family in Kyrgyzstan looks forward to continuing its cooperation with the Akyikatchy and her Institute , including through provision of technical advice on upgrading the Law “On Akyikatchy” through an open, inclusive and consultative process; supporting her continued engagement with UN Human Rights Mechanisms;  reinforcing cooperation with civil society, as well as strengthening the capacity of the Akyikatchy in Bishkek and in its regional offices, among other.
“The celebration this year of the 75thanniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights gives us a unique opportunity to cooperate on joint initiatives and activities, promoting the universality of human rights and expanding civic space to make the enjoyment of human rights a reality in the Kyrgyz Republic” added Fabio Piana, UN Human Rights Central Asia Regional Representative ad interim.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/234114-introductory-meeting-newly-appointed-ombudsperson-akyikatchy-dzhamilya-dzhamanbaeva




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: MESSAGE OF THE UN SECRETARY-GENERAL ON WORLD PRESS FREEDOM DAY
Content: 03 May 2023
For three decades, on World Press Freedom Day, the international community has celebrated the work of journalists and media workers.
This day highlights a basic truth: all our freedom depends on press freedom.
Freedom of the press is the foundation of democracy and justice. It gives all of us the facts we need to shape opinions and speak truth to power. And as this year’s theme reminds us, press freedom represents the very lifeblood of human rights.
But in every corner of the world, freedom of the press is under attack.
Truth is threatened by disinformation and hate speech seeking to blur the lines between fact and fiction, between science and conspiracy.
The increased concentration of the media industry into the hands of a few, the financial collapse of scores of independent news organizations, and an increase of national laws and regulations that stifle journalists are further expanding censorship and threatening freedom of expression.
Meanwhile, journalists and media workers are directly targeted on and offline as they carry out their vital work. They are routinely harassed, intimidated, detained and imprisoned.
At least 67 media workers were killed in 2022 — an unbelievable 50 per cent increase over the previous year. Nearly three quarters of women journalists have experienced violence online, and one in four have been threatened physically.
Ten years ago, the United Nations established a Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists to protect media workers and end impunity for crimes committed against them.
On this and every World Press Freedom Day, the world must speak with one voice.
Stop the threats and attacks.
Stop detaining and imprisoning journalists for doing their jobs.
Stop the lies and disinformation.
Stop targeting truth and truth-tellers.
As journalists stand up for truth, the world stands with them.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/229963-message-un-secretary-general-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 26 April 2023
Title: UN Resident Coordinator Visits Naryn Oblast, Discusses Local Development Priorities
Content: 26 April 2023
On April 24-25, 2023, Antje Grawe, the United Nations Resident Coordinator (UNRC), visited Naryn oblast together with Dr Barkat Fazal, the Diplomatic Representative of the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN), Christine Jaulmes, the UNICEF Representative, Altaaf Hasham, the AKDN Management Programme and Liaison Officer, and Baktybek Kainazarov, the UNFPA Head of Office. During her two-day visit, the UNRC met with local officials, UCA representatives, youth as well as women and girls from Naryn and beneficiaries of UN-supported programs and projects, in the areas including gender equality, climate action, youth empowerment, improved access to markets for local farmers, nutritious meals for school children and others.

The UNRC began her visit with a tour of the University of Central Asia (UCA), where she discussed opportunities to strengthen collaboration between the UN and UCA, with AKDN and University representatives. Together with Dr Fazal and the other members of the delegation, she also met with Altynbek Ergeshev, the President's Plenipotentiary Representative in Naryn, to discuss local development priorities and ways in which the UN can support these efforts. The UNRC then visited the UCA School for Professional and Continuing Education and the Naryn Centre for Entrepreneurship, which offer education and training opportunities for local residents. The UNRC also visited the "Bektemir-Ata" cooperative in the village of Orto-Nura, an IFAD-funded project that improves farmers' capacity to access new markets.

On the second day of the visit, the UNRC opened, together with the H.E. Mr Ergeshev, a youth forum organized by several UN agencies and partners and hosted by the UCA which brough together around 30-40 youth from Naryn oblast to generate recommendations and innovative ideas for the ECOSOC Youth Forum held in New York on 25-26 April. The recommendations were presented to the Youth Forum the following day.

The UN team further visited the Naryn Family Group Practitioners #1, supported by UNICEF, observing progress made in immunizing the local population, including children.
In Ornok village, Naryn district, the UNRC visited a WFP-supported school meals program and met with the school director to discuss the importance of providing nutritious meals to school children in the region.

Finally, the UN team visited two EU-UN Spotlight Initiative-supported projects: a schoolgirls club in Kara Too village and a recreation center for teachers in Kochkor, both aimed at creating safe spaces for girls and women. The UNRC discussed specific challenges faced by women and girls including gender-based violence, early marriage and bride kidnapping as well as women and girls-led initiatives aimed at eliminating these harmful practices and strengthening gender equality and respect for human rights.

UNRC Antje Grawe expressed appreciation for the hard work and dedication of all the partners and UN staff working in Naryn. She emphasized the importance of continuing to support local development efforts to ensure a better future for all in the region.

MORE PHOTOS
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/229025-un-resident-coordinator-visits-naryn-oblast-discusses-local-development-priorities




Date: 17 April 2023
Title: UN Presented Key Priorities of UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework to Development Partners
Content: 17 April 2023
Today, the UN Resident Coordinator and the other members of the UN Country Team in Kyrgyzstan presented the key priorities of the UN’s work in Kyrgyzstan under the new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) covering the period 2023 – 2027 to the Diplomatic Corps and development partners.

During her opening remarks, the UN Resident Coordinator Antje Grawe highlighted that the UN system has entered a new era of cooperation and partnership with Kyrgyzstan, with an emphasis on intensified cooperation among UN entities and across mandates, in the spirit of the UN Development Reform, to accelerate progress toward the achievement of the SDGs in the Kyrgyz Republic. In the implementation of the new UNSDCF*, the UN system will work closely with all relevant stakeholders, including the Government, civil society, the private sector, women and youth as well as Kyrgyzstan’s development partners.


* The Cooperation Framework identified through an inclusive, participatory and iterative consultation process four priority areas which are guiding our collective work:
=========

More photos https://flic.kr/s/aHBqjAA7dy&nbsp;
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/228040-un-presented-key-priorities-un-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework-development




Date: 29 March 2023
Title: Switzerland team up with WFP to improve the living conditions of the residents of Social Inpatient Institutions in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 29 March 2023
Bishkek – The Ambassador of Switzerland to the Kyrgyz Republic, His Excellency Olivier Bangerter, together with WFP Representative and Country Director, Kojiro Nakai and the Minister of labour, social security and migration Kudaibergen Bazarbaev, visited the Jaiyl Psychoneurological Social Inpatient Institution (SII) upon completion of the refurbishment works for the project aimed at improving the living conditions of people residing in targeted SIIs across the country.
With the generous contribution of USD 473,000 from the Government of Switzerland, WFP, in partnership with the Social Protection Department under the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Migration, completed repair and construction works at the 6 priority SIIs in Chuy, Jalal-Abad, Talas and Batken provinces with worst WASH conditions (Water, Sanitation, Hygiene). In particular, better living conditions in terms of access to water, sanitation and hygiene have been established and the infrastructure of kitchen facilities have been improved.
In total 1200 residents, receiving social care services at SIIs, which include adult persons with disabilities and the elderly, now have access to proper WASH facilities, as well as balanced and nutritious meals. In partnership with the Ministry of Health and the Kyrgyz State Medical Academy named after I.K. Ahunbaev, WFP enhanced the physiological food norms (daily food rations for vegetables, bread, meat and etc) for all SIIs, which were not revised since 2007.
Previously, the SIIs used the same outdated food norms for adults and children, the project adjusted the norms for children and prepared a more balanced ration (less carbohydrates) for all residents of SIIs. With the updated food norms, a new decree was issued and accompanying regulation to implement food norms across all SII was developed. Additionally, WFP completed capacity strengthening activities for cooks and administration of all 16 SIIs in the country under the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Migration on enhancing meal preparation and basic nutritional knowledge.
***
For more information about the project and WFP, please contact: Almaz Tchoroev, Communications Officer, 
tel: +996 550 577 597, email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org
For more information on Swiss Development Cooperation, please contact: Tursunai Chodurova, Communications Officer, Swiss Embassy/Bishkek, tel: +996 770 710054, email: tursunai.chodurova@eda.admin.ch
***
The Government of Switzerland provides assistance for the development of the Kyrgyz Republic. Since 1994, Switzerland has granted around CHF 500 million to Kyrgyzstan in the form of technical, financial and humanitarian support. For more information, please visit https://www.eda.admin.ch/bishkek.
Follow us on www.facebook.com/SwissEmbassyKyrgyzstan
www.instagram.com/swissembassykg
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/, https://www.instagram.com/wfp_kyrgyzstan
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/225294-switzerland-team-wfp-improve-living-conditions-residents-social-inpatient-institutions




Date: 28 March 2023
Title: Switzerland supports the Kyrgyz Republic in building the disaster risk resilience of vulnerable communities
Content: 28 March 2023
Bishkek – The Ministry of Emergency Situations (MES) of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN World Food Programme (WFP) have established two automated gabion net production workshops in Chui and Osh provinces and improved the capacity of the digital disaster monitoring and early warning systems of MES.
Thanks to the support from the Government of Switzerland, two modern production lines and four trucks were handed over to the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Through this project, the MES moved from manual to automated local production of gabion nets, allowing the two workshops to manufacture the required amount of gabion nets annually, increasing the production rate by four times. The trucks will deliver the much-needed gabion nets to far away regions throughout the country in a timely manner and shorten the lead time for emergency assistance. Additionally, the information technology infrastructure for disaster monitoring and early warning systems were improved. This contribution will significantly enhance the ability of MES to protect the livelihoods of vulnerable population and ultimately reduce the impact of climate change on food and nutrition security.
“The Government of Switzerland will continue to support vulnerable communities prone to natural disasters. We are proud to provide the Ministry of Emergency Situations the resources to prevent and mitigate the effects of climate change and build a systemic approach in managing hazards, such as droughts, mudslides and floods,” said the Ambassador of Switzerland to the Kyrgyz Republic Olivier Bangerter.
With the automated system and quality assurance processes in place, the workshops, operating on a Public-Private Partnership basis, will allow the country to produce the necessary gabion nets required. Previously, large bulk of the gabion nets were imported from abroad. Produced gabion nets will be used to strengthen slopes, protect riverbed and banks and other disaster prevention measures.
“We thank the Government of Switzerland for this effective contribution and its commitment in supporting the vulnerable communities in rural and mountainous areas. WFP will continue to closely work with the Government at all levels, to facilitate the shift from disaster response to disaster risk management and allowing sustainable and transformative changes among vulnerable rural communities affected by the climate change,” said WFP Representative and Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic, Mr. Kojiro Nakai.
In January 2023, the Government of Switzerland has allocated over USD 9.2 million to WFP’s pillar aimed at building the resilience of the most vulnerable rural communities against climate change and disaster risks. This component is being implemented by WFP in partnership with the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic. The activities within the pillar will cover Osh, Batken, Jalalabad and Naryn provinces and support around 250,000 most vulnerable households, as well as targeted local authorities and institutions at the national level. Reliable and timely climate information, disaster-resilient planning and selected infrastructure support will be provided to the beneficiaries. In 2022, USD 2.2 million was allocated by the Government of Switzerland to this component.
For more information about the project and WFP, please contact: Almaz Tchoroev, Communications Officer, 
tel: +996 550 577 597, email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org
For more information on Swiss Development Cooperation, please contact: Tursunai Chodurova, Communications Officer, Swiss Embassy/Bishkek, tel: +996 770 710054, email: tursunai.chodurova@eda.admin.ch
***
The Government of Switzerland provides assistance for the development of the Kyrgyz Republic. Since 1994, Switzerland has granted around CHF 500 million to Kyrgyzstan in the form of technical, financial and humanitarian support. For more information, please visit https://www.eda.admin.ch/bishkek.
Follow us on www.facebook.com/SwissEmbassyKyrgyzstan
www.instagram.com/swissembassykg
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/, https://www.instagram.com/wfp_kyrgyzstan
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/225293-switzerland-supports-kyrgyz-republic-building-disaster-risk-resilience-vulnerable




Date: 24 March 2023
Title: Joint Strategic Coordination Committee endorsed work plans for 2023-2024
Content: 24 March 2023
Joint Strategic Coordination Committee endorsed work plans for 2023-2024
On March 24, 2023, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic and the United Nations system in the Kyrgyz Republic met under the auspices of the Joint Strategic Coordination Committee for the new United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2023-2027 (Cooperation Framework). The meeting was co-chaired by the Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers, Akylbek Japarov, and UN Resident Coordinator, Antje Grawe.


The meeting's main objective was to endorse the Cooperation Framework's Joint Work Plans for 2023-2024.


In his opening remarks, Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers, Akylbek Japarov, expressed gratitude to the UN system for the support and expressed commitment to continuing the comprehensive cooperation. He emphasized the relevance of the Joint Work Plans for the improvement of lives of people and creating better conditions for development, especially in the light of the ongoing reforms.

“We are entering a new era of an even more inclusive and comprehensive partnership with Kyrgyzstan on the basis of our new five-year Cooperation Framework - a pivotal tool in our collective pursuit of sustainable and equitable and just development in line with national development priorities and the 2030 Agenda. Through the Joint Work Plans, we aim to address complex development issues in the interest of the people and the planet, while reaching the most vulnerable first and leaving no one behind. As we work with the Government, parliament, civil society, private sector, youth, academia and others to support Kyrgyzstan in achieving its ambitious development objectives, we will continue to be guided by the urgency to achieve the SDGs by 2030,” UN Resident Coordinator Antje Grawe stated.
She emphasized that the Cooperation Framework represents the basis for the UN’s development cooperation with Kyrgyzstan in four priority areas:
In January and February 2023, the Joint Work Plans were discussed at national consultations with representatives of relevant State institutions, civil society, labor organizations, private sector and other partners.
The Joint Strategic Steering Committee of the Government of Kyrgyzstan and the United Nations is the highest governing body of the United Nations Cooperation Framework for Sustainable Development.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/224766-joint-strategic-coordination-committee-endorsed-work-plans-2023-2024




Date: 17 March 2023
Title: Combatting NCDs and promoting mental health: strong partnership is key
Content: 17 March 2023
Combatting noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) and investing in mental health were high on the agenda at a policy dialogue event in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. The multistakeholder event was organized as part of a visit to Kyrgyzstan by the United Nations Interagency Task Force on the Prevention and Control of NCDs (UNIATF). Participants agreed on a strong partnership to assist Kyrgyzstan in quantifying the costs of NCDs and the benefits of scaled-up action for their prevention and control, both in the health sector and the economy at large.
A collaboration of WHO and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the visit aimed to collect intersectoral data and evidence to link NCDs and mental health to national development goals in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. A report to be launched in Bishkek later this year will empower decision-makers from government and ministries to make compelling, evidence-informed cases to advocate for NCD investment, understand funding priorities and reconsider budget allocations in the future.
The event brought together high-level policy-makers from the Office of the President, the Parliament, various ministries, the United Nations Resident Coordinator Office in Kyrgyzstan, development agencies, health institutes and civil society organizations, as well as WHO experts and national health professionals.
In 2017, WHO in collaboration with UNIATF and UNDP analysed the economic burden of NCDs as well as the costs and benefits of investing in NCD prevention and control in Kyrgyzstan. The report detailed how NCDs cause almost 4% of the country’s gross domestic product to be lost each year – equivalent to US$ 250 million – and how premature death, illness and disability from NCDs impact Kyrgyzstan’s socioeconomic development.
They found that the reduced cost of a healthier population will outweigh the investment needed to lower the prevalence of NCDs by 12 times. NCDs such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and chronic respiratory diseases, and their risk factors (tobacco use, harmful use of alcohol, unhealthy diet and physical inactivity), are responsible for 80% of all deaths in the country. Most worryingly, there is a 28% probability of dying prematurely (between the ages of 30 and 70 years) from NCDs in Kyrgyzstan.
“Kyrgyzstan, like the rest of the world, confronts an epidemic of NCDs that is having serious economic and public health impacts and it is not acceptable. I hope that the recommendations and decisions made as a result of today's high-level policy dialogue will help us solve this big problem with NCDs,” said Dr Shahin Huseynov, WHO Special Representative of the WHO Regional Director in Kyrgyzstan.
The E-Health Centre under the Ministry of Health officially received the UNIATF and WHO Special Programme on Primary Health Care award for scaling up digital health in primary care, with a particular emphasis on the prevention and control of NCDs.
Winners were announced on 21 September 2022 at the annual Friends of the Task Force meeting during the United Nations General Assembly. Awards were made in 3 categories: ministries of health (or government agency under a ministry of health); ministries (or government agencies) beyond health; and non-State actors (nongovernmental organizations, academic institutions and philanthropic foundations).
“I believe this award will be a symbol of hard work and motivation for the team to become more efficient and carry out the further digital transformation of the e-health industry,” noted Dr Bakyt Dzhangaziev, Deputy Minister of Health.
UNIATF was established by the United Nations Secretary-General in 2013. NCDs, also known as chronic diseases, include cardiovascular diseases, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes. UNIATF’s role is to bring relevant actors from across the United Nations system and national governments together to develop whole-of-government, whole-of-society approaches for the prevention and control of NCDs.
The work of UNIATF includes implementing the Global Joint Programme on NCDs to conduct investment cases, coordinate interagency joint programmes and facilitate thematic working groups. WHO acts as a Secretariat for the Task Force.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/229243-combatting-ncds-and-promoting-mental-health-strong-partnership-key




Date: 08 February 2023
Title: UN Peacebuilding Fund Joint Steering Committee Reviews Ongoing and New Projects in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 08 February 2023
UN Peacebuilding Fund Joint Steering Committee Reviews Ongoing and New Projects in the Kyrgyz Republic

Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic - The Joint Steering Committee (JSC) of the United Nations Peacebuilding Fund (UN PBF) held its meeting today, co-chaired by the United Nations Resident Coordinator, Ms. Antje Grawe, and the Head of the Department for Political and Economic Research of the Presidential Administration, Mr. Almas Isanov. The JSC, composed of government representatives, UN, development partners, and civil society, provides crucial oversight for UN PBF peacebuilding and social cohesion projects in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Since 2010, the UN PBF has allocated a total of $56 million to support peace initiatives in the country. The current phase of UN PBF's work for the period of 2021-2026, based on the request of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov, focuses on promoting transparent governance, inclusive civic identity, and trust and cooperation between border communities.
At the meeting, progress was presented on three projects with a total budget of $5.1 million. Discussions were also held on two additional projects with a total budget of $3.9 million, aimed at promoting local peace initiatives, including those led by women and closer partnerships between government and civil society at local level.
The UN Resident Coordinator emphasized the importance of building trust at all levels and reminded attendees that UN PBF projects aim to foster a culture of peace in society whilst building capacities and providing platforms for peaceful resolution of differences. The Head of the Department for Political and Economic Research of the Presidential Administration, Mr. Almas Isanov, underlined the importance of further preserving and strengthening tolerance and inclusivity in the country as prerequisites for peace and economic prosperity.
The Joint Steering Committee plays a critical role in ensuring accountability and sustainability of UN PBF-supported initiatives in the Kyrgyz Republic. These initiatives will continue to support peace and social cohesion efforts.
***
Please click this link to see pictures from the event
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/218321-un-peacebuilding-fund-joint-steering-committee-reviews-ongoing-and-new-projects-kyrgyz




Date: 24 January 2023
Title: Switzerland allocates over USD 9 million to support most vulnerable rural communities in climate change and disaster risks resilience
Content: 24 January 2023
Bishkek – The Ambassador of Switzerland to the Kyrgyz Republic His Excellency Olivier Bangerter and the Representative and Country Director of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) Mr. Kojiro Nakai have signed an agreement on the contribution from the Government of Switzerland to the WFP’s Country Strategic Plan for 2023-2027 (CSP). The First Deputy Minister of Emergency Situations Mr. Azamat Mambetov took part in the signing assuring the commitment to support and proactively participate in the implementation.
The Government of Switzerland will allocate over USD 9 million for the WFP CSP pillar aimed at building the resilience of the most vulnerable rural communities against climate change and disaster risks. This component is being implemented by WFP in partnership with the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The activities will cover Osh, Batken, Jalalabad and Naryn provinces and support around 250,000 most vulnerable households, as well as targeted local authorities and institutions on the national level to build a systemic approach in managing hazards, such as droughts, mudslides, floods, etc. Reliable and timely climate information, disaster-resilient planning and selected infrastructure support will be provided to the beneficiaries.
Disaster risk management activities will also be strengthened to prepare for climate related hazards and reduce their impact on food and nutrition security. The vulnerable communities will be provided with food security and livestock insurance tools and will be trained on build-back-better mechanisms.
The contribution implementation is foreseen for the next five years.

For more information about the project and WFP, please contact: Almaz Tchoroev, Communications Officer,
tel: +996 550 577 597, email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org
For more information on Swiss Development Cooperation, please contact: Tursunai Chodurova, Communications Officer, Swiss Embassy/Bishkek, tel: +996 770 710054, email: tursunai.chodurova@eda.admin.ch
***
The Government of Switzerland provides assistance for the development of the Kyrgyz Republic. Since 1994, Switzerland has granted around CHF 500 million to Kyrgyzstan in the form of technical, financial and humanitarian support. For more information, please visit https://www.eda.admin.ch/bishkek.
Follow us on www.facebook.com/SwissEmbassyKyrgyzstan
www.instagram.com/swissembkyrgyz
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/, https://www.instagram.com/wfp_kyrgyzstan
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/216531-switzerland-allocates-over-usd-9-million-support-most-vulnerable-rural-communities-climate




Date: 24 January 2023
Title: UN calls for cross-sectoral approach to transform education system in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 24 January 2023
Today, as we mark the International Day of Education 2023, proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly in celebration of the role of education for peace and development, the United Nations System in the Kyrgyz Republic reiterates the importance of inclusive and equitable quality education for Kyrgyzstan’s sustainable development and peace.
According to UNICEF’s global report ‘Are children really learning?’, in Kyrgyzstan, more than half of the children aged 10 and attending Grade 3 do not have foundational reading and numeracy skills. It means that in a class of 40 children, only 12 students would be able to read a textbook designed for their age. This learning crisis disproportionally affects the most vulnerable children and is a major driver of inter-generational poverty and inequality. Also, as 38 per cent of the country’s population are currently children under the age of 18, it is estimated that within the next decade, every year, over 350,000 young people will be entering the labour market. Therefore, it is critical to invest in enhancing their employability and specific job skills that prepare them adequately for the local market now.
The UN in the Kyrgyz Republic reiterates its continued support to the realization of Kyrgyzstan’s national commitments, which the Kyrgyz Government articulated during the Transforming Education Summit (TES), convened by the UN Secretary-General in New York in September 2022. These commitments will help accelerate reforms to transform Kyrgyzstan’s education system to make it fitter for the future: more relevant, more inclusive and more adaptive to future challenges. Education plays a critical role in human capital development and can serve to accelerate progress towards national development priorities and all the Sustainable Development Goals. It requires a cross-sectoral approach, and the UN Country Team in the Kyrgyz Republic is committed to supporting such approach, together, in the spirit of this year‘s theme of the International Day of Education: “to invest in people, prioritize education”.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/216467-un-calls-cross-sectoral-approach-transform-education-system-kyrgyzstan




Date: 23 January 2023
Title: Ministry of Emergency Situations thanked UN for support to humanitarian efforts
Content: 23 January 2023


BISHKEK - On 23 January 2023, the Ministry of Emergency Situations (MES) thanked humanitarian partners, including the UN, in the Kyrgyz Republic for the support to the humanitarian efforts as part of the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU), which was activated in September 2022 following the escalation of violence along the Kyrgyz-Tajik border.
The Minister of Emergency Situations, Mr. Boobek Azhikeev, presented letters of appreciation and medals to the DRCU Co-chair from the UN, UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Antje Grawe and the DRCU sector leads and members.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/216746-ministry-emergency-situations-thanked-un-support-humanitarian-efforts




Date: 20 January 2023
Title: Japan supports over 25,000 people affected by the escalation of violence along the Kyrgyz-Tajik border
Content: 20 January 2023
Batken – The Ambassador of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic, Mr. Hideki Goda, has officially handed over food and non-food items to the Deputy Plenipotentiary Representative of the President to Batken Region, Mr. Isakov Janybek. The ceremony took place in Batken town, with the participation of representatives from the Ministry of Emergency Situation and Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Migration. The support from the Government of Japan is provided through the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in the Kyrgyz Republic.
WFP received USD 500,000 to respond to the needs of vulnerable population affected by clashes. With the contribution from Japan and in line with the approach agreed with the Kyrgyz Government, WFP has provided 496 tons of fortified wheat flour and vegetable oil to over 25,000 of displaced people, host families, and returnees who participated in community recovery works in the affected areas. These activities include rehabilitation of community assets and cleaning culvert, drain, and canals. The needs for the works were raised from the affected communities, in close collaboration with local authorities and relevant line ministries.
UNHCR received USD 500,000 to aide internally displaced people and returnees with protection, emergency shelter and winterization assistance. As part of the project, UNHCR, through the Red Crescent Society of Kyrgyzstan, is supplying displaced people, returnees and host communities with essential core relief items, coal for heating, and emergency shelter to protect them from the cold winter until their homes are restored. The contribution from Japan is also enabling UNHCR, in cooperation with NGO Fergana Valley Lawyers without Borders, to help restoring property and civil documents, including birth certificates to ensure that displaced persons have legal proof of identity to access essential services, social benefits and humanitarian assistance.

For more information please contact:
Yelena Sim, UNHCR, External Relations | Tel: +7 727 258 4598, Mobile ++7 701 993 67 43, Email: sim@unhcr.org
Almaz Tchoroev, WFP Bishkek, Communications | Tel: +996 312 660033, Mobile: +996 550 577 597, Email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org
#             #             #
UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Agency protects people forced to flee their homes because of conflict and persecution by responding with life-saving support, safeguarding fundamental human rights and helping them build a better future. UNHCR opened its representation in Kyrgyzstan in 1995, supporting the government to protect and find solutions for forcibly displaced and stateless people, and respond to humanitarian emergencies.
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.


UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/216528-japan-supports-over-25000-people-affected-escalation-violence-along-kyrgyz-tajik-border




Date: 13 December 2022
Title: Fill the Nutrient Gap analysis presents new evidence to combat the negative impact of malnutrition
Content: 13 December 2022
Bishkek – Fill the Nutrient Gap (FNG) analysis, jointly conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN World Food Programme (WFP), reveals that two fifth of the population (38 percent) cannot afford a nutritious diet.
The analysis will provide a framework for future actions to model interventions that could mitigate unaffordability of nutritious diets. The Kyrgyz Republic continues to face a complex challenge in improving nutrition among the public. Although stunting rates have decreased from 18 percent to 7 percent between 2012 and 2021, the percentage of children and adults suffering from overweight and obesity and associated non-communicable diseases have increased dramatically and micronutrient deficiencies continue to remain.
Nutrition is a crucial pillar in the development of a healthy and productive human-capital and nation. Good nutrition enhances physical and cognitive development, prevents diseases, and increases the potential of the workforce and society. Improving diets, especially of children and women, brings immediate and long-term health, education and economic benefits. Improving the nutrition situation in a country requires coordinated actions across the agriculture, social protection, health and education systems that are grounded in a good understanding of the local context and a synthesis of global and local evidence.
The FNG analysis is designed to help identify where opportunities to improve access to nutritious diets exist. By convening stakeholders from across sectors, the Government will have the opportunity to identify how food systems can be strengthened to support nutrition, and which interventions should be prioritized to enable households to access nutritious diets.
According to the results of the FNG analysis nutrient-adequate diets cost three times more than diets that meet only energy needs, the average daily cost of an energy-only diet for the five-person household was 107 KGS while a nutritious diet for the same household was nearly 3 times higher at 296 KGS per day. Poor diets are contributing to all forms of malnutrition in the Kyrgyz Republic. There is no single solution to improving nutrition outcomes; hence, combining nutrition-sensitive interventions with social protection programmes can contribute towards closing a household’s affordability gap. The analysis also recommends to strengthen the school feeding programme through clear guidelines and regulations around nutritional content of school meals, while also advocating for increased government financing and expanding school feeding programmes to additional age groups, such as pre-school children.

For more information about the project and WFP please contact: Almaz Tchoroev, WFP/Bishkek, Tel: +996 312 660033, Mobile: +996 550 577 597, email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org
#             #             #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/,
https://www.instagram.com/wfp_kyrgyzstan

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/211225-fill-nutrient-gap-analysis-presents-new-evidence-combat-negative-impact-malnutrition




Date: 09 December 2022
Title: Women's Film Week was held in Bishkek as part of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender Violence
Content: 09 December 2022

Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan - from December 5 to 8, the National History Museum hosted a Women's Film Week as part of a 16-day activism against gender-based violence. Film Week aims to develop and support women filmmakers and the film community of Kyrgyzstan to give women filmmakers an opportunity to reach a wide audience and be heard. Every day from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., films were shown that touched on current, acute issues of gender inequality and violence through the lens of women filmmakers.
Women's Film Week is a collaboration between the EU-UN  "Spotlight Initiative" and the Public Foundation for Creative Women in Asia, supported by the Ministry of Culture, Information, Sports and Youth Policy.
The presentation of the short feature film "Bashka biroo" was also held during the Film Week. The film is about the struggle of a Kyrgyz woman Ainagul for the life and safety of her friend Erkinay, about domestic violence and about grassroots activism. The author and director of the film is Zhanna Araeva, an expert on gender and media. The film was also made with the support of the EU-UN "Spotlight Initiative" as part of the 16-day campaign against gender-based violence.
The film is available for viewing at the following link.
Photos from the opening of Women's Film Week here
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/210731-womens-film-week-was-held-bishkek-part-16-days-activism-against-gender-violence




Date: 18 November 2022
Title: For the first time in the history of Kyrgyzstan trading of gender bonds started
Content: 18 November 2022


On November 18th, 2022, for the first time in the history of Kyrgyzstan, gender bonds trading started. This initiative was the result of a partnership between UN Women Kyrgyzstan, the Bank of Asia, the Institute for Economic Policy Research of the Kyrgyz Republic, AIFC Green Finance Centre (AIFC GFC), Kyrgyz Stock Exchange, and the financial company "Senti".
The Bank of Asia became the first bank-issuer of gender bonds in Kyrgyzstan. The purpose of gender bonds is to develop the business of women entrepreneurs, improve the welfare and livelihoods of women, contributing to gender equality, and women's rights and economic empowerment.
Gender bonds are loans at a reduced interest rate and are designed to grow the business of women entrepreneurs. The bonds were launched not only to empower women but are also expected to have a positive impact on the development of gender economy.
Ulziisuren Jamsran, the Representative of UN Women Kyrgyzstan, highlighted in her welcoming speech the contribution of gender bonds to the National Program to Support and Develop Women's Entrepreneurship in the Kyrgyz Republic for 2022-2026 and the National Gender Strategy on Achieving Gender Equality by 2030.
"This initiative will give special attention to women entrepreneurs from suburban and rural areas and different regions of Kyrgyzstan who can bring huge dividends to the community, as women's economic empowerment and sustainable economic growth are mutually reinforcing processes", Ms. Ulziisuren Jamsran emphasized.
82,000 gender bonds worth 1,000 KGS each were put up for public auction. The period of their circulation is three years, and the total value of bonds is 82,000,000 KGS. 25% of gender bonds (20,500,000 KGS) were purchased within the first half an hour of trading, mainly by the business sector. Among the first buyers were the Accumulative Pension Fund of Kyrgyzstan; Lee Jong Beck, one of the shareholder of Bank of Asia; businessperson Jumabek Salymbekov; Nadira Kasymova, CEO of World Class Bishkek; the insurance company Jubilee Kyrgyzstan, and the association "Dordoi".
For information:
One of the differences between social bonds and classic bonds is that the former are target bonds, the attracted funds of which will be used for social projects, and are issued in accordance with international principles established by the International Capital Markets Association (ICMA). The AIFC GFC, the only company in Central Asia accredited by ICMA and the Climate Bonds Initiative, carries out the verification of social bonds. For example, in
Kazakhstan, 60% of green bonds and loans are verified by the AIFC GFC and received the international recognition №1 in Eastern Europe and Central Asia in accordance with the Global Green Finance Index.
You can leave an application to buy bonds at: www.inet.kg
Event photos
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/208333-first-time-history-kyrgyzstan-trading-gender-bonds-started




Date: 15 November 2022
Title: World’s population hits 8 billion people  (UNFPA)
Content: 15 November 2022
As the world’s population hits 8 billion people, UN calls for solidarity in advancing sustainable development for all
By achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, delivering human rights and leaving no one behind, we can usher in a world where all 8 billion people can thrive
PRESS RELEASE

New York, 15 November 2022 – The global population is projected to reach 8 billion on 15 November 2022, signalling major improvements in public health that have lowered the risk of dying and increased life expectancy. But the moment is also a clarion call for humanity to look beyond the numbers and meet its shared responsibility to protect people and the planet, starting with the most vulnerable.
“Unless we bridge the yawning chasm between the global haves and have-nots, we are setting ourselves up for an 8-billion-strong world filled with tensions and mistrust, crisis and conflict,” said UN Secretary-General António Guterres.
A more demographically diverse world than ever before
While the world’s population will continue to grow to around 10.4 billion in the 2080s, the overall rate of growth is slowing down. The world is more demographically diverse than ever before, with countries facing starkly different population trends ranging from growth to decline. Today, two-thirds of the global population lives in a low fertility context, where the lifetime fertility is below 2.1 births per woman. At the same time, population growth has become increasingly concentrated among the world’s poorest countries, most of which are in sub-Saharan Africa.
Against this backdrop, the global community must ensure that all countries, regardless of whether their populations are growing or shrinking, are equipped to provide a good quality of life for their populations and can lift up and empower their most marginalised people.
“A world of 8 billion is a milestone for humanity – the result of longer lifespans, reductions in poverty, and declining maternal and childhood mortality. Yet, focusing on numbers alone distracts us from the real challenge we face: securing a world in which progress can be enjoyed equally and sustainably,” said UNFPA Executive Director Dr. Natalia Kanem. “We cannot rely on one-size-fits-all solutions in a world in which the median age is 41 in Europe compared to 17 in sub-Saharan Africa. To succeed, all population policies must have reproductive rights at their core, invest in people and planet, and be based on solid data.”
Complex linkages between population, sustainable development and climate change
While the Day of 8 Billion represents a success story for humanity, it also raises concerns about links between population growth, poverty, climate change and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. The relationship between population growth and sustainable development is complex.
Rapid population growth makes eradicating poverty, combatting hunger and malnutrition, and increasing the coverage of health and education systems more difficult. Conversely, achieving the SDGs, especially those related to health, education and gender equality, will contribute to slowing global population growth.
Relatedly, although slower population growth–if maintained over several decades–could help to mitigate environmental degradation, conflating population growth with a rise in greenhouse gas emissions ignores that countries with the highest consumption and emissions rates are those where population growth is already slow or even negative. Meanwhile, the majority of the world’s population growth is concentrated among the poorest countries, which have significantly lower emissions rates but are likely to suffer disproportionately from the effects of climate change.
“We must accelerate our efforts to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement as well as achieve the SDGs,” said Li Junhua, UN Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs. “We need a rapid decoupling of economic activity from the current over-reliance on fossil-fuel energy, as well as greater efficiency in the use of those resources, and we need to make this a just and inclusive transition that supports those left furthest behind.”
The need for a sustainable future built on rights and choices
In order to usher in a world in which all 8 billion people can thrive, we must look to proven and effective solutions to mitigate our world’s challenges and achieve the SDGs, while prioritising human rights. In order to pursue these solutions, increased investment from member states and donor governments is needed in policies and programmes that work to make the world safer, more sustainable and more inclusive.
Key facts and figures at a glance
It took about 12 years for the world population to grow from 7 to 8 billion, but the next billion is expected to take approx 14.5 years (2037), reflecting the slowdown in global growth. World population is projected to reach a peak of around 10.4 billion people during the 2080s and to remain at that level until 2100.
For the increase from 7 to 8 billion, around 70 per cent of the added population was in low-income and lower-middle-income countries. For the increase from 8 to 9 billion, these two groups of countries are expected to account for more than 90 per cent of global growth.
Between now and 2050, the global increase in the population under age 65 will occur entirely in low income and lower-middle-income countries, since population growth in high-income and upper-middle income countries will occur only among those aged 65 years or over.

---------------------------------------------------
For more information, please visit: https://www.unfpa.org/8billion
Event: UNFPA marks 8 billion @ ICFP 2022 - Learn more
Watch the Official Video
Watch the UN HQ noon press briefing on UN Web TV at 12pm EST on 15 November 2022

For more information, please contact:
Kanat Kubatbekov | UN Population Fund (UNFPA)  Communications Associate | kubatbekov@unfpa.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/207418-world%E2%80%99s-population-hits-8-billion-people-unfpa




Date: 14 November 2022
Title: Tartynba Fest: festival on digital sex education was held in Bishkek
Content: 14 November 2022
On November 12-13, 2022, Tartynba Fest, first-ever Festival on digital sexuality education in Kyrgyzstan, brought together over 250 participants to have an open and honest conversation about sexual and reproductive health and rights, gender equality and gender-based violence, and other related issues.
Tartynba Fest - youth platform for sharing, learning, inspiring and networking to promote comprehensive sexuality education and end gender-based violence.
“Tartynba” in Kyrgyz language means “do not be shy”. The Festival aimed to highlight the topics that concern many young people but are often surrounded by stereotypes and, as a result, rarely discussed in families and education settings. What ‘zoomers’ want to know about puberty, health and
relationships, and where do they go searching for this information? Why sexuality and shame go together, and has it always been this way? Does
sexuality education contradict traditions and cultural norms? What feminism really is about and why it’s important not only for women and girls? How
digital sexuality education programs help to embrace one another’s differences and tackle stigma and discrimination of various groups? During
two days of the event participants had a chance to look for answers to these questions without fear and shame.
Young digital content creators and representatives of different youth organizations and initiatives from all over Kyrgyzstan (including rural and
remote areas) were the main audience of the Festival, with 75% of participants being girls and young women. They had an opportunity to hear
from 85 speakers - experts, educators, celebrities, journalists and youth influencers - in public talks, discussions, workshops and lectures. 
Altogether, the Festival’s audience could discuss their challenges and develop joint approaches to meet the needs of different young people in
information and support.
The Fest provided a platform for young people from Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and other countries to get united and share their efforts and
experiences in creating unique digital products and projects to raise their peers’ awareness about health, relationships, sexuality and safety, to support and empower them to make informed choices and protect their rights.
Ten youth-led and youth-focused initiatives and organizations – Spring in Bishkek, Dance4Life, Ne tabu.kz, Teens.kg, Reproductive Health Alliance
of Kyrgyzstan, Teenergizer, Oilo chatbot, Erkin Kyz, Bishkek AIDS Centre and Spasatelny Krug (Lifebouy) shared with participants their products and
approaches to reach out to different groups of young people. Addressing gender inequality and gender-based violence, empowering girls
and promoting rights, equality and inclusion were the focus of many sessions at the Festival.
Well known feminist activists, popular singers, bloggers, artists, content creators and representatives of youth and female organizations spoke
about domestic violence, early and forced marriages, bride kidnapping and urged participants to join efforts to end these harmful practices.
The festival participants recorded a call for action addressed to ministries of education, NGOs, parents and young people to provide offline and online
comprehensive sexuality education meeting needs of youth in all its diversity, including those young people with disabilities; remove barriers to
health and other services for young people; address gender inequality andgender-based violence offline and online.
All events at the Festival were supported by Kyrgyz-Russian simultaneous translation. Public talks at the main stage were also broadcasted and
widely viewed across Eastern Europe and Central Asia. They are available at the Festival website.
The Bishkek AIDS centre organized free voluntary express HIV testing for the Fest participants. The Fest was organized by the Reproductive Health Alliance of Kyrgyzstan in cooperation with the financial contributions of UNESCO, UNFPA, UNAIDS, and the Luxembourg Government, and IPPF.
For more information about the Tartynba Festival see its website
Photos from the festival
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/210224-tartynba-fest-festival-digital-sex-education-was-held-bishkek




Date: 11 November 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General António Guterres: Eight billion people, one humanity
Content: 11 November 2022

The world’s population will reach 8 billion in the middle of November – a testament to scientific breakthroughs and improvements in nutrition, public health and sanitation. But as our human family grows larger, it is also growing more divided.
Billions of people are struggling; hundreds of millions are facing hunger and even famine. Record numbers are on the move seeking opportunities and relief from debt and hardship, wars and climate disasters.
Unless we bridge the yawning chasm between the global haves and have-nots, we are setting ourselves up for an 8-billion-strong world filled with tensions and mistrust, crisis and conflict.
The facts speak for themselves. A handful of billionaires control as much wealth as the poorest half of the world. The top one percent globally pocket one fifth of the world’s income, while people in the richest countries can expect to live up to 30 years longer than those in the poorest. As the world has grown richer and healthier in recent decades, these inequalities have grown too.
On top of these long-term trends, the accelerating climate crisis and the unequal recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic are turbocharging inequalities. We are heading straight for climate catastrophe, while emissions and temperatures continue to rise. Floods, storms and droughts are devastating countries that contributed almost nothing to global heating.
The war in Ukraine is adding to ongoing food, energy and finance crises, hitting developing economies hardest. These inequalities take their greatest toll on women and girls, and on marginalized groups that already suffer discrimination.
Many countries in the Global South face huge debts, increasing poverty and hunger, and the growing impacts of the climate crisis. They have little chance of investing in a sustainable recovery from the pandemic, the transition to renewable energy, or education and training for the digital age.
Anger and resentment against developed countries are reaching breaking points.
Toxic divisions and lack of trust are causing delays and deadlock on a host of issues, from nuclear disarmament to terrorism to global health. We must curb these damaging trends, repair relationships and find joint solutions to our common challenges.
The first step is acknowledging that this runaway inequality is a choice, and one that developed countries have the responsibility to reverse – starting this month at the UN climate conference in Egypt and the G20 summit in Bali.
I hope COP27 will see a historic Climate Solidarity Pact under which developed and emerging economies unite around a common strategy and combine their capacities and resources for the benefit of humankind. Wealthier countries must provide key emerging economies with financial and technical support to transition away from fossil fuels. That is our only hope of meeting our climate goals.
I also urge leaders at COP27 to agree on a roadmap and institutional framework to compensate countries in the Global South for climate-related loss and damage that is already causing enormous suffering.
The G20 summit in Bali will be an opportunity to address the plight of developing countries. I have urged G20 economies to adopt a stimulus package that will provide governments of the Global South with investments and liquidity, and address debt relief and restructuring.
As we push for action on these medium-term measures, we are working non-stop with all stakeholders to ease the global food crisis.
The Black Sea Grain Initiative is an essential part of those efforts. It has helped to stabilize markets and bring food prices down. Every fraction of a percent has the potential to ease hunger and save lives.
We are also working to ensure Russian fertilizers can flow into global markets, which have been severely disrupted by the war. Fertilizer prices are up to three times higher than before the pandemic. Rice, the most widely consumed staple in the world, is the crop that will suffer most.
Removing the remaining obstacles to the exports of Russian fertilizers is an essential step towards global food security.
But among all these serious challenges, there is some good news.
Our eight-billion-strong world could yield enormous opportunities for some of the poorest countries, where population growth is highest.
Relatively small investments in healthcare, education, gender equality and sustainable economic development could create a virtuous circle of development and growth, transforming economies and lives.
Within a few decades, today’s poorest countries could become engines of sustainable, green growth and prosperity across entire regions.
I never bet against human ingenuity, and I have enormous faith in human solidarity. In these difficult times, we would do well to remember the words of one of humanity’s wisest observers, Mahatma Gandhi: “The world has enough for everyone's need – but not everyone's greed.”
This month’s big global meetups must be an opportunity to start bridging divides and restoring trust, based on the equal rights and freedoms of every single member of humanity’s eight-billion-strong family.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/206929-un-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-eight-billion-people-one-humanity




Date: 11 November 2022
Title: European Union and World Health Organization join forces for disease prevention and a stronger health care system in Kyrgyzstan: a new project launch
Content: 11 November 2022
Kyrgyzstan is one of five Central Asian countries to benefit from a 4-year project, jointly funded by the European Union and World Health Organization, to strengthen immunization and the digitalization of health systems towards advancing universal health coverage.
The €10 million project, to be implemented in Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan, aims to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and reinforce longer-term health resilience through stronger national immunization programmes and health information management systems.
“The EU and the WHO will continue our partnership to strengthen the Kyrgyz health system after the great success during the fight of COVID-19 pandemic,” highlighted Hans Farnhammer, Head of Cooperation, Delegation of the European Union to the Kyrgyz Republic.
"This valuable support from the European Union will help in addressing immunization inequity and will strengthen information management systems. WHO is committed to working in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health in this journey to better health," stressed Joana Madureira Lima, Special Representative of the Regional Director, WHO in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The funds will initially be used to scale-up COVID-19 vaccination, develop and implement COVID-19 and routine immunization plans, train healthcare workers and professionals involved in vaccination and strengthen immunization information systems.  The project will also strengthen vaccine-preventable disease surveillance and the use of digital solutions to prevent and respond to future vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks.
Furthermore, the funds will be used to enhance data and digital health systems in line with the recently adopted regional digital health action plan 2023-2030 for which Central Asian countries have shown strong support.
The new project builds on earlier support from the European Union and WHO, from 2020-2022, to strengthen the response to COVID-19 in Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/206949-european-union-and-world-health-organization-join-forces-disease-prevention-and-stronger




Date: 03 November 2022
Title: National nutrition survey shows concerning levels of anemia and iron deficiency among children and women in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 03 November 2022
Results of the first nationwide comprehensive survey on the nutrition status of children and women in Kyrgyzstan have been presented today by the Ministry of Health.

BISHKEK, November 3, 2022 – The Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic, together with UNICEF, FAO, WFP, WHO, Mercy Corps and USAID, today released the results of the National Integrated Micronutrient and Anthropometric Survey in the Kyrgyz Republic (NIMAS) – the first large-scale study on the nutritional status of children and women ever conducted in Kyrgyzstan. A total of 3,452 households were surveyed in all regions, with blood samples being analyzed by certified laboratories in Germany, Jordan and Tanzania.  The study was designed to determine the micronutrient deficiencies and other nutrition issues that are affecting children aged 6-59 months and 5-9 years, adolescent girls aged 10-19 years, women of reproductive age 15-49 years and pregnant women, presenting the data by age groups and regions.
As per the findings of the survey, the prevalence of anemia and iron deficiency among children, adolescent girls and women, as well as folic acid deficiency among women, remain serious public health concerns. About 50 per cent of pregnant women suffer from anemia, which increases the risk of maternal and neonatal death. Iron deficiency affects 47 per cent of children from 6 months to 5 years of age, which can negatively affect their physical and intellectual development. Vast majority of women and adolescent girls, 86 per cent, suffer from folic acid deficiency. Folic acid deficiency in future mother can lead to various malformations of the brain and spinal cord in the fetus.
Nationally, 44 per cent of women suffer from obesity and overweight and more than half have insufficient levels of vitamin D.
According to data collected, a large number of households in Issyk-Kul, Naryn and Chui regions experience food insecurity, mainly caused by poverty.
On the positive side, the NIMAS concludes that the salt iodization programme is functioning well as iodine status was found adequate among adolescent girls, non-pregnant women and pregnant women.
The field work for the survey involved nine teams of 110 field workers who had to fill out questionnaires, measure height and weight, take samples of salt and flour from households; health workers were also tasked to collect blood and urine samples.
Salt and Flour samples have been also analyzed to check if these products are adequately fortified in line with national regulations. Iodized salt is being used by 98 per cent of the population, however, flour was not adequately fortified in line with national standards. Salt and flour fortification are easy and cheap methods to prevent micronutrient deficiencies.
The survey samples were sent to the internationally certified laboratories, such as VitMin Lab in Germany, BioLab in Jordan, and the Tanzanian Food and Nutrition Center. All salt and flour samples were analyzed in Kyrgyzstan by the Department for Disease Prevention and State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance under the Ministry of Health. The total cost of the study was 545,000 US dollars.

In her opening remarks, UN Resident Coordinator Antje Grawe stated:
"The importance of data in the formulation of national policies and decision-making cannot be overestimated. As such, NIMAS will help the Government and other partners to address the nutrition deficiencies of women and children. Evidently, safe and healthy nutrition is key to enabling people to enjoy quality lives as they make the most of their physical and mental potential, thereby realizing their aspirations and dreams."
The study was conducted with UNICEF technical assistance as part of the implementation of the State Programme for the Protection of Public Health and the Development of the Healthcare System for 2019–2030, "A healthy person is a prosperous country" and the State Program for Food Security and Nutrition for 2019–2023. The work was supported by This research will help shape the nutrition and health policies needed to improve the health status of the country.
Note for editors:
This study on the nutritional status of children and women (National Integrated Micronutrient and Anthropometric Survey in the Kyrgyz Republic) was conducted by the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic with the support of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations World Food Program (WFP), World Health Organization (WHO), Mercy Corps and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
--------

Please see the rest of the photos from the event here https://flic.kr/s/aHBqjAdKsJ&nbsp;
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/205811-national-nutrition-survey-shows-concerning-levels-anemia-and-iron-deficiency-among-children




Date: 02 November 2022
Title: Japan allocates USD 1 million to support vulnerable people in Batken and Osh following the border clashes
Content: 02 November 2022
Bishkek – The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in the Kyrgyz Republic will receive USD 1 million from the Government of Japan to support thousands affected by the Kyrgyz-Tajik border clashes.
WFP will receive USD 500,000 to respond to the needs of vulnerable population affected by the Kyrgyz-Tajik border clashes. With the contribution from Japan and in line with the approach agreed with the Kyrgyz Government, WFP will provide fortified wheat flour and vegetable oil to internally displaced people and host families, as well as returnees upon completion of community recovery works.
UNHCR will receive USD 500,000 for protection activities to assist people displaced by the conflict and returnees, including through identifying and responding to protection risks, and providing legal assistance to restore civilian documents. The contribution from Japan will also enable UNHCR to provide IDPs, returnees and host communities with essential core relief items and emergency shelter that can offer people protection from the cold Kyrgyzstan winter.
The two UN agencies will assist over 55,000 vulnerable people within three months in Batken and Osh provinces.
“The Government of Japan hopes that this assistance will help the people of the Kyrgyz Republic to overcome the hardship and respond to the humanitarian situation caused by the clashes around the border between the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan,” said His Excellency Hideki Goda, Japanese Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic. “The Emergency Grant Aid will allow the UN agencies to provide humanitarian assistance, such as food, shelter, protection and non-food items.”
“The contribution from the Government of Japan comes at a critical time, with the Global Food Crisis causing unprecedented challenges to the world. With winter fast approaching, we are grateful for the grant, which will enable us to provide food assistance to vulnerable people in border areas,” said Kojiro Nakai, WFP Representative and Country Director. “By working together with other UN Agencies and partners, we hope to provide immediate support, while improving community assets for the future”.
"With high-levels of displacement and returns, disruption of public services and break-down of support networks, vulnerable groups have even greater protection needs,” said Hans Friedrich Schodder, UNHCR Representative for Central Asia. “With this contribution from Japan, UNHCR can respond to the urgent protection needs of displaced and returned persons and families, including helping individuals restore legal proof of identity so that they can access social and health services, and other rights. The imminent onset of winter brings additional challenges. Displaced people, host communities and returnees need safe, warm and dignified shelter.”
Violence in the south of the Kyrgyz Republic along the border with Tajikistan displaced over 140,000 people in mid-September. The Ministry of Emergency Situations and the UN Country Team in the Kyrgyz Republic activated the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU), an inter-agency coordination mechanism with participation of UN Agencies, Red Cross Red Crescent Movement and non-governmental organizations, in support of the Government. UNHCR is leading the Protection Sector and contributes to the Emergency Shelter/ NFI response, while WFP is leading the Food Security and Logistics Sectors of this interagency humanitarian response.
On 21 October, the DRCU launched a Response Plan which aims to reach over 77,700 of the most vulnerable among the affected people. The plan requires USD 14.7 million in humanitarian funding to meet the most urgent humanitarian needs until the end of this year.
The UN agencies were part of the Rapid Emergency Assessment and Coordination Team (REACT) mission, conducted by the DRCU upon Government request. The REACT mission determined that 38 percent of surveyed population in the affected areas have difficulties in attaining enough food, and limited functionality of markets was observed in all of Batken and Leilek districts, and partially in two districts of Osh province. Other key concerns of the affected population included adequate emergency shelter as well as financial restitution for lost lives and property.
For more information please contact:
Mariko Hall, UNHCR, External Relations | Tel: +7 727 258 4598, Mobile +7 701 098 6650, Email: hallma@unhcr.org
Almaz Tchoroev, WFP Bishkek, Communications | Tel: +996 312 660033, Mobile: +996 550 577 597, Email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org
#             #             #
UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Agency protects people forced to flee their homes because of conflict and persecution by responding with life-saving support, safeguarding fundamental human rights and helping them build a better future. UNHCR opened its representation in Kyrgyzstan in 1995, supporting the Government to protect and find solutions for forcibly displaced and stateless people, and respond to humanitarian emergencies.
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/205723-japan-allocates-usd-1-million-support-vulnerable-people-batken-and-osh-following-border




Date: 01 November 2022
Title: SDG Festival "ART SDG FEST"
Content: 01 November 2022
On October 23 and November 1, 2022 a festival "ART SDG FEST" was held in c.Bishkek and c.Talas to celebrate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Day and UN Day by active volunteers of the Public Platform "Young Leaders for Social Progress" ("YLSP") and the Initiative Group of Talas city "Green Team" with the support of the UN system represented by the UN Population Fund and the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.

As part of the event, an art gallery was organized as part of the artist competition, where participants demonstrated their talents in painting in 4 thematic sections:                                                                          
      - quality education;
      - environmental safety and responsible consumption;
      - social and gender equality;
      - sexual and reproductive health of the population.
The artists' works were evaluated by the visitors, who chose the best ones by open voting.
As part of the festival, a fair of organizations in the thematic areas of the event was held, which presented their products and presented to visitors about their activities, as well as games and quizzes.
Contests, a lottery and a "Kahoot" quiz were successfully held in which the most active citizens won prizes. There was also a children's program with active games related to the Sustainable Development Goals.
Festival photos
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/206498-sdg-festival-art-sdg-fest




Date: 27 October 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator met with Chairman of Cabinet of Ministers
Content: 27 October 2022
The UN Resident Coordinator (UNRC), Ms. Antje Grawe, met with the Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic, Mr. Akylbek Japarov. The Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers congratulated the UN Resident Coordinator on her appointment and looked forward to further deepening the Kyrgyzstan-UN partnership to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.

The sides discussed the Kyrgyzstan’s national development priorities as well as the joint preparations for the implementation of the new five-year UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) which will enter into effect in January 2023. In this context, they also exchanged views on implementing Kyrgyzstan’s ambitious climate action initiatives and agreed to continue the close dialogue on the preservation of mountainous ecosystems and biodiversity.
The Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers and the UNRC also discussed the ongoing efforts to meet the immediate needs of over 77,700 of the most vulnerable among the affected people in Batken, through the recently launched Response Plan of the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU).
Ms. Antje Grawe congratulated the Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers on Kyrgyzstan’s recent election to the UN Human Rights Council and reiterated the readiness of the UN system to continue to work with the Government, civil society and all partners in promoting human rights in the country.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/205001-un-resident-coordinator-met-chairman-cabinet-ministers




Date: 24 October 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General's UN Day Message
Content: 24 October 2022
The United Nations is the product of hope.

The hope — and resolve — following the Second World War to move beyond global conflict to global cooperation.

Today, our organization is being tested like never before.

But the United Nations was made for moments like this.
Now, more than ever, we need to bring to life the values and principles of the UN Charter in every corner of the world.

By giving peace a chance and ending conflicts that jeopardize lives, futures and global progress.

By working to end extreme poverty, reduce inequalities, and rescue the Sustainable Development Goals.

By safeguarding our planet, including by breaking our addiction to fossil fuels and kickstarting the renewable energy revolution.

And by finally balancing the scales of opportunity and freedom for women and girls and ensure human rights for all.

As we mark UN Day, let us renew our hope and conviction in what humanity can achieve when we work as one, in global solidarity.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/204432-un-secretary-generals-un-day-message




Date: 21 October 2022
Title: Disaster Response Coordination Unit launched Emergency Response Plan to cover the most urgent needs of the affected communities in Batken oblast
Content: 21 October 2022
Today, the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU) Council has announced its Response Plan, aimed at addressing the most pressing needs of the population affected by the recent escalation of violence along the Kyrgyz-Tajik border. The Response Plan was presented by the Minister of Emergency Situations, Mr. Boobek Azhikeev, and the UN Resident Coordinator (UNRC), Ms. Antje Grawe.
The Response Plan is based on the findings of the DRCU’s Rapid Needs Assessment Mission, which was conducted in September 2022, as well as other assessment and sectoral analysis. It identified the following key humanitarian priorities, centered around people’s needs: food assistance; procurement of non-food items, particularly basic household supplies and appropriate clothing ahead of winter; procurement of hygiene and sanitation items; temporary shelter for the displaced population; access to essential health services including psychological and legal assistance.
The Response Plan covers the period of three months and aims to reach over 77,700 of the most vulnerable among the affected people, based on an agreed vulnerability criteria, including gender, age and disability factors. It requires US$14.7 million in humanitarian funding to meet urgent humanitarian needs of the affected population.
The DRCU Government’s Co-Chair, Minister of Emergency Situations, Boobek Azhikeev, informed of the ongoing humanitarian efforts and thanked humanitarian partners including UN agencies and other international and national organizations for the assistance provided so far.
He stated, “As we all know, the Batken events have recently taken place. From the first days, thanks to the joint efforts within the DRCU, large-scale assistance was provided to the affected people. The UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan, Ms. Antje Grawe, played a key role in the rapid coordination of urgent humanitarian assistance. As the winter months approach, we have a task to address the immediate needs of vulnerable groups among the affected people. In particular, there are a number of tasks, such as to provide children with education, identity documents, warm clothes, warm temporary shelters, medical care, psychological and legal support. Dear partners, I urge you to provide comprehensive support to help us restore the livelihoods of the affected population in Batken oblast,” the Minister emphasized in his speech.
The DRCU Co-chair from the UN, UNRC Antje Grawe, noted in her remarks, “We are now in a race against time ahead of the winter season, which will add another level of strain on the most affected people. Immediate funding is urgently needed to enable humanitarian partners to address the specific humanitarian needs of over 77 thousand people, as per the Response Plan.” She emphasized the critical importance of the restoration of trust and confidence to enable local residents to live in safety and revitalize their livelihoods, without fear. She concluded underlining that “in this regard, it is crucial that the sides continue their dialogue and engage only through diplomatic means to resolve outstanding issues.”
The DRCU is a multi-stakeholder body co-chaired by the Minister/Deputy Minister of the MoES and the UN Resident Coordinator and attended by all national and international humanitarian partners, including UN agencies, Red Crescent Society of Kyrgyzstan, the ICRC and NGOs. The DRCU is tasked to coordinate and respond to emergency situations. It was activated on 16 September at the request of the Government.
----------
Read the DRCU Emergency Response Plan Executive Summary.
Read the Press Release.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/204240-disaster-response-coordination-unit-launched-emergency-response-plan-cover-most-urgent-needs




Date: 19 October 2022
Title: World Food Day campaign at schools
Content: 19 October 2022
WFP together with Social and Industrial Food Service Institute (SIFI) is conducting a World Food Day campaign in 14 pilot schools of the country during October 17-21, 2022. The aim of the campaign is to shape primary school children’s perceptions of a healthy, balanced diet as the basis of good eating habits and a healthy lifestyle.
World Food Day campaign will be conducted in the form of a performance about delicious and healthy food. In the selected schools all over the country, performances will be held with the participation of senior students. As previous experience has shown, the involvement of senior students  in the campaign will change behaviour and attitudes towards healthy eating in society. Primary school children and their parents are invited as an audience.
World Food Day is celebrated annually on 16 October, was proclaimed in 1979 by the Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. The main purpose of the day is to achieve food security for all: to ensure that people have regular access to sufficient, high-quality food to lead active, healthy lives.
In 2022, the main theme of the World Food Day is “Leave No One Behind”, to make sure that all people, especially the vulnerable, are able to benefit from development, innovation and economic growth. Currently, millions of people around the world cannot afford a healthy diet, putting them at high risk of food insecurity and malnutrition.
Since 2013, with the support of donors, WFP and SIFIhave been implementing the "Optimised school meals" programme in more than 850 schools in the country, where hot and diverse meals are organized. The project reached approximately 220,000 primary school children.
#          #          #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/, https://www.instagram.com/wfp_kyrgyzstan
For more information about WFP please contact: Almaz Tchoroev, WFP/Bishkek, Tel: +996 312 660033, Mobile: +996 550 577 597, email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/203867-world-food-day-campaign-schools




Date: 18 October 2022
Title: “Leave No One Behind” - The celebration of World Food Day in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 18 October 2022
Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic - In honour of celebrating the World Food Day in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic, together with FAO and WFP, is organising an agricultural fair and agriculture exhibition at the main square in the capital Bishkek.
The agriculture fair and exhibition was organized for all women, men, girls and boys of the country and will be attended by high level officials, including the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov, to reiterate the commitment of the Government to ensure safe and nutritious food for all. Everyone is welcomed to join, and, during the fair, there will be the opportunity to see and buy organic products of local farmers and celebrate the 95th anniversary since the establishment of Ministry of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic.
“This year, the World Food Day coincides with the 95th anniversary of the Ministry of Agriculture. During the fair, we will celebrate this important date by demonstrating our achievements and goals for the future, as well as provide the opportunity for the public to see over 200 Kyrgyz companies producing organic products with modern technologies, agricultural machinery, thoroughbred livestock and dozens of varieties of potatoes, apples, pears and various dairy products,” said Askarbek Janybekov, the Minister of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic.
In 2022, the main theme of the World Food Day is “Leave No One Behind”, a reminder to pay particular attention to those cohorts of the population that are most vulnerable in order for them to equally benefit from development, innovation and economic growth. Currently, millions of people around the world cannot afford a healthy diet, putting them at high risk of food insecurity and malnutrition which perpetuates poverty.
“Over 80 percent of the extreme poor live in rural areas around the world. They mainly rely on the agriculture sector to survive. Despite the world producing sufficient food to feed us all, access to and consumption of nutritious food is increasingly impeded by multiple challenges, including the Global Food Crisis, climate change and international tensions,” said Dinara Rakhmanova, Assistant FAO Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The World Food Day draws the attention of the public on the issues of food security and nutrition. UN agencies, together with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, have joined forces to organize this fair to raise awareness on the efforts required for agri-food systems to be sustainable and inclusive. This means not only supporting farmers expanding the horizons of agricultural production, but also working along the food chains to improve the accessibility and consumption of a healthy and nutritious diet.
“The world, including the Kyrgyz Republic is facing unprecedented challenges in the post-Covid recovery period and to face these challenges we need to listen to smallholder farmers, producers and rural communities to establish a sustainable food system. WFP continues to work in strengthening the food systems and support healthy diets for all, especially the most vulnerable communities through its projects in the country”, said Hilke David, the WFP Deputy Country Director and Officer-in-Charge in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The World Food Day, celebrated annually on October 16, was proclaimed in 1979 as a necessary measure to inform the population of the world's food problems that require immediate solutions. The countries around world had recognized the need to eradicate hunger from the planet and create conditions for the development of sustainable agriculture.

#            #            #

For more information please contact:
Evgeniy Pechurin, Outreach Project Assistant, evgeniy.pechurin@fao.org, 0550838089
Almaz Tchoroev, Head of Communications and Donor relations Unit, almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org, 0550577597
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/203697-%E2%80%9Cleave-no-one-behind%E2%80%9D-celebration-world-food-day-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 14 October 2022
Title: UN congratulates Kyrgyz Republic on its election to the UN Human Rights Council
Content: 14 October 2022
On October 11, at the 17th meeting of the 77th session of the UN General Assembly, the Kyrgyz Republic was elected as a member of the UN Human Rights Council for the period 2023-2025. This is the third time the country is elected for a three-year term.
The election to the UN Human Rights Council is a great achievement and a unique opportunity for swift action to promote human rights, serving as a model for other nations.
The UN system in Kyrgyz Republic welcomes the voluntary pledges and commitments made by the Kyrgyz Republic prior to its election to the UN Human Rights Council, especially strengthening cooperation with international human rights mechanisms; enhancing the capacity of civil society to participate in policy development; raising public awareness of human rights; supporting the promotion and protection of child rights; training law enforcement officials; protecting vulnerable groups; addressing the rights of persons with disabilities; and enhancing the rights and opportunities of women and girls.
These voluntary commitments and pledges can represent a valuable framework to support policies, legislation and practices in the Kyrgyz Republic, building on the progress gained so far and further strengthening the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. The UN system stands ready to work with the government, civil society and all partners in promoting human rights in the country.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/203626-un-congratulates-kyrgyz-republic-its-election-un-human-rights-council




Date: 12 October 2022
Title: THE GREEN CLIMATE FUND AND WFP TEAM UP TO SUPPORT VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES THROUGH CLIMATE SERVICES AND CLIMATE SENSITIVE LIVELIHOODS
Content: 12 October 2022
BISHKEK - The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) - with financial assistance from the Green Climate Fund (GCF) - is launching a project in the Kyrgyz Republic to help vulnerable rural communities manage climate risks such as increasing weather variability, by providing climate services and helping to promote climate sensitive livelihoods.
The GCF-funded project will help the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, its line ministries and local authorities, to support over 100,000 food-insecure people living in Osh, Batken and Naryn provinces, boosting their adaptive capacities and reduce their vulnerability to the climate crisis. These provinces are increasingly affected by climate-related disasters, with communities suffering from limited capacities to adapt.
The project aims to implement an innovative set of actions, including dissemination of climate services to manage climate risks and increasing weather variability; construction of small-scale climate risk reductions infrastructure; sharing of best practices to inform communities and improve decision-making; as well as focused effort to support climate change adaptation actions at the community level.
“WFP, with the Green Climate Fund and development partners, will help boost climate action and livelihood diversification, which will ultimately strengthen the overall economic resilience of communities living in areas prone to natural disasters,” said Kojiro Nakai, WFP Country Director and Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The Kyrgyz Republic is highly vulnerable to climatic shocks, which are expected to increase in frequency and intensity with the climate crisis. In recent decades, the country has experienced increased weather variability such as disrupted rainfall patterns, increasingly heavy snowfalls, higher numbers of floods and mudflows in the spring, and a rise in drought and severe cold spells. Negative impacts of climate change on pastures, land condition, water resources availability, environmental degradation and rising climate-related disasters affect rural households and in particular low-income groups that depend on agriculture for their livelihoods.

#            #            #

The Green Climate Fund (GCF) – a critical element of the historic Paris Agreement - is the world’s largest climate fund, mandated to support developing countries raise and realize their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) ambitions towards low-emissions, climate-resilient pathways. For more information, please visit https ://www.greenclimate.fund
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on:
Twitter @WFPinKG
Facebook https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/
Instagram Instagram https://www.instagram.com/wfp_kyrgyzstan

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/202909-green-climate-fund-and-wfp-team-support-vulnerable-communities-through-climate-services-and




Date: 05 October 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator Presents Credentials to President of Kyrgyzstan
Content: 05 October 2022
The new UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic, Ms. Antje Grawe, has presented her credentials to the President of the Kyrgyz Republic, H.E. Sadyr Zhaparov.

Welcoming the UN Resident Coordinator and congratulating on her appointment, the President of Kyrgyzstan expressed confidence that the Kyrgyzstan-UN relations will further deepen under her leadership. He thanked the UN system for its continued support of the implementation of the country’s development priorities and in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, providing humanitarian assistance to the people affected by the recent escalation of violence along the Kyrgyz-Tajik border.

Ms. Antje Grawe offered her condolences for the lives lost during the flareup of the conflict and informed of the UN family’s engagement in the immediate humanitarian response in the affected communities, whilst underlining the importance of social cohesion. The UN Resident Coordinator re-stated the UN’s commitment to supporting the Government’s and people’s aspirations for sustainable development, peace and prosperity, including through the new five-year UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2023 – 2027, signed with the Government in June 2022. She also reaffirmed the UN’s support to further strengthening the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and looked forward to supporting the implementation of the country’s new gender equality strategy.

Ms. Antje Grawe also expressed the UN’s support to the country’s ambitious climate action goals and initiatives aimed at preserving mountainous ecosystems and biodiversity.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/202925-un-resident-coordinator-presents-credentials-president-kyrgyzstan




Date: 28 September 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator Antje Grawe and Minister of Emergency Situations Boobek Azhikeev Discuss Humanitarian Response
Content: 28 September 2022
On September 28, 2022, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic Antje Grawe discussed with Minister of Emergency Situations (MES) of the Kyrgyz Republic Boobek Azhikeev the ongoing humanitarian activities.
The Minister of Emergency Situations provided detailed information on the casualties and damaged infrastructure on the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic as a result of the violence on the Kyrgyz-Tajik border, the ongoing work of the MES related to evacuation, the provision of humanitarian assistance to residents of the affected villages, and also announced priority and long-term needs necessary to restore the livelihoods of the population in Batken.
The Minister of Emergency Situations also acknowledged the role of Antje Grawe in urgently convening two meetings of the Councils of the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU) and thanked for the humanitarian assistance provided by the UN agencies and other international organizations.
The UN Resident Coordinator expressed her gratitude to the Minister for his leadership in the coordination of the delivery of humanitarian needs, reconfirmed the UN system’s commitment to supporting the humanitarian and early recovery efforts and informed of the ongoing work of the rapid assessment team, which is identifying the immediate needs of the affected people of Kyrgyzstan. She further informed that the results of the work would be presented at the next meeting of the DRCU Council.
The sides also discussed further joint steps of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN Country Team in providing immediate humanitarian assistance to the affected population as well as strengthening peace and ensuring long-term humanitarian preparedness.
Antje Grawe expressed readiness to consider the list of needs announced by the Minister of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic and mobilize humanitarian assistance from UN agencies and other international organizations in accordance with their mandates.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/201418-un-resident-coordinator-antje-grawe-and-minister-emergency-situations-boobek-azhikeev




Date: 21 September 2022
Title: DRCU Council Discusses Ongoing Humanitarian Response
Content: 21 September 2022
On 20 September the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU) Council convened at the Ministry of Emergency Situations (MES) of the Kyrgyz Republic to discuss the ongoing and future humanitarian activities, including a rapid assessment of the humanitarian needs of affected communities.

The Government Co-chair of the DRCU, First Deputy of the MES, Azamat Mambetov, informed of the current humanitarian situation and thanked the DRCU members for providing quick emergency response.
The UN Co-chair of the DRCU, UN Resident Coordinator Antje Grawe, conveyed condolences to families and friends of those who lost lives, wished speedy recovery to the injured, and shared sympathies with all the internally displaced people.
She emphasized the importance of conducting solid needs assessment to inform a detailed humanitarian response plan and engage in comprehensive response and early recovery efforts which take into consideration the need to ensure access to government services for the affected communities, including resumption of education for children, availability of hygienic and sanitation measures and psychosocial support at camps for internally displaced people, among other.
The DRCU’s rapid needs assessment will be finalized next week.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/200235-drcu-council-discusses-ongoing-humanitarian-response




Date: 19 September 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator discussed ongoing humanitarian efforts with Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs
Content: 19 September 2022
UN Resident Coordinator (UNRC) Antje Grawe has met today with Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Aibek Moldogaziev to discuss the ongoing efforts of the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU) in addressing the immediate humanitarian needs of the affected population.
The DRCU was activated on 16 September 2022 following the request of the Ministry of Emergency Situations (MES) for urgent and coordinated delivery of humanitarian aid.
As part of DRCU’s immediate response, on 16 September, the UN World Food Program quickly responded to the needs of over 14,000 internally displaced people by providing an initial 40 tons of food (36 tons of wheat flour and 4 tons of vegetable oil) to the MES. Overall, WFP will deliver 400 tons of food (360 tons of wheat flour and 40 tones of vegetable oil). Other members of DRCU, including MSF, the Kyrgyzstan Red Crescent, and UNICEF, provided support to the internally displaced people by distributing non-food and hygiene items, psychosocial and medical support. As part of DRCU, further assistance has been committed, including by IOM, UNFPA, UNHCR, and WHO, in close coordination with the MES.
The DRCU was established in 2008 and is co-chaired by UNRC and the MES to enhance cooperation and coordination between the Government, UN, Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and other key actors for adequate and effective humanitarian response to emergency situations.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/199909-un-resident-coordinator-discussed-ongoing-humanitarian-efforts-deputy-minister-foreign




Date: 17 September 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Kyrgyzstan-Tajikistan border clashes
Content: 17 September 2022
The Secretary-General is following the escalation of violence along the Kyrgyz-Tajik border with great concern. He is deeply saddened by the loss of life and extends his condolences to the victims and their families.
The Secretary-General calls on the leadership of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Republic of Tajikistan to engage in dialogue for a lasting ceasefire. Both sides should take full advantage of the existing mechanisms on the ground to defuse tensions.
 
The United Nations stands ready to assist in identifying a sustainable solution to the border disputes, if requested by the sides.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/199720-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-kyrgyzstan-tajikistan-border-clashes




Date: 29 August 2022
Title: Health Starts with Me
Content: 29 August 2022
Bishkek, August 29, 2022 - A bike ride under the motto "Health Starts with Me!" was held in the capital, timed to the Independence Day of the Kyrgyz Republic and dedicated to strengthening the unity of the people, increasing tolerance, preservation and development of diversity.

The event was organized by the Ministry of Culture, Information, Sports and Youth Policy of the Kyrgyz Republic, with the support of the Administration of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic, Bishkek City Hall, "Velo Positiv kg" Public Association and "Golden Wheels" cycling club, in partnership with the UN agencies in the Kyrgyz Republic - UNDP, UNICEF, OHCHR; Public Association Institute for Peace and Development, and "Shoro" company, within the implementation of the Kyrgyz Jarany concept.
At the opening ceremony of the bicycle rally, Almaz Isanov, head of the Political and Economic Research Department of the Presidential Administration of the Kyrgyz Republic, noted,
"Every citizen of Kyrgyzstan is a Kyrgyz jarany, so we all unite around the "Kyrgyz jarany" concept. The purpose of today's bike rally is to call everyone to a healthy lifestyle, and to promote the Concept widely.
In 2020, by decree of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Concept for the Development of Civil Identity of the Kyrgyz Jarany in the Kyrgyz Republic for the period 2021-2026 was approved. The main goal of the Concept is to develop a favorable environment for the development and promotion of the shared civic identity - Kyrgyz Jarany, which unites all ethnic communities while preserving/maintaining their ethno-cultural identity.
Priority directions of the Concept:
Support for the implementation of the Kyrgyz Jarany Concept is carried out under the project "Inclusive Governance and Civic Identity for Sustainable Peace and Development" with the technical support of the UN agencies in the Kyrgyz Republic - UNDP, UNICEF and OHCHR, and funding from the UN Peacebuilding Fund.

Photo from the cycling event: https://flic.kr/s/aHBqjA4XMg
Contacts for media: Nurzhan Alymkanova, UNDP communications specialist  nurzhan.alymkanova@undp.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/197172-health-starts-me




Date: 09 August 2022
Title: Newly appointed UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan presented copy of her credentials to Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kyrgyzstan
Content: 09 August 2022


Today, 9 August 2022, Ms. Antje Grawe, the newly appointed United Nations Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic, presented copies of her credentials to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic, H.E. Jeenbek Kulubaev.
During the meeting, the sides discussed ways to further deepen the partnership between the United Nations (UN) and the Government of Kyrgyzstan, including on the basis of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework, signed between the UN and the Government of Kyrgyzstan in June 2022.  They also discussed ongoing efforts to deepen regional economic cooperation, advance inclusive economic and social development with vulnerable groups at the heart, and explored future cooperation in the spheres of environmental protection and climate action, among other. Ms. Grawe expressed her eagerness to explore the diversity of Kyrgyzstan and meet its people, while closely and regularly engaging with national and local authorities, women and human rights actors and representatives of other civil society groups, as well as private sector, academia and international partners.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan reiterated the strong commitment of the UN Country Team to support the advancement of Kyrgyzstan's national development priorities, for the benefit of the people of the Kyrgyz Republic.

Ms. Grawe brings more than 20 years of experience in international cooperation, sustainable development and peace and security with the United Nations and other international and bilateral organizations.
Prior to her appointment as UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Grawe served for three and a half years with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine, first as Deputy Chief Monitor leading the Mission's work in the fields of human rights, gender, environment and dialogue facilitation, since April this year as Acting Head of Mission.
Earlier, she served with UN Political and Peace Operations in various leadership and senior advisory roles in Afghanistan, Haiti and for the Office of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Yemen (OSESGY). In Afghanistan, she led the Regional Office of the United Nations Assistance Mission (UNAMA) in Herat and was the Head of the Mission's Analysis and Planning Unit. In the OSESGY, she served as Senior Peacebuilding Officer after having advised the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) as Senior Special Assistant for nearly four years.
Ms. Grawe also worked with the German Government at the Embassy in Pakistan as Counsellor for Economic Cooperation and Development and as Desk Officer for Afghanistan in the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) in Bonn, in addition to positions with the German Corporation for International Cooperation (GIZ) at its Headquarters in Germany and in Afghanistan.
Ms. Antje Grawe holds a master’s degree in Political Science and History from the University in Trier, Germany. She also holds a certificate in political science from the Institut d’Études Politiques in Bordeaux, France, and studied at Universities in Krakow and Warsaw in Poland.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/194088-newly-appointed-un-resident-coordinator-kyrgyzstan-presented-copy-her-credentials-minister




Date: 31 July 2022
Title: UN holds SDGs Induction Workshop for New Staff of President's Administration
Content: 31 July 2022

On 30-31 July, 2022, more than 50 representatives of the Presidential Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as members of civil society and staff of the UN took part in the induction workshop to discuss the institutional landscape for the SDG coordination and oversight, considering the recent structural reforms. The participants, representing different departments and capacities, learnt about the SDGs progress and challenges through intersectoral discussions covering legal, policy-making and practical implementation of the Agenda 2030 in the Kyrgyz Republic.

The workshop, organized by the UN with UNDP’s technical leadership, at the request of the Department of the Political and Economic Research of the President’s Administration, aims to enhance the government capacity in different dimensions of the SDGs to ensure consistency of the national policy among various government entities and contribute to institutional effectiveness.

“I would call today's workshop an attempt to dive into the future. Today, as a team that prepares intellectual materials for decision-makers, we should work more efficiently and not miss out subtle factors in our analysis so that the decisions reflected in our programs and strategies are more accurate in responding to future challenges, as it is increasingly critical to make quick and effective decisions. I am inspired by the matrix and philosophy behind the SDGs, which reflects the process of interrelationship of various spheres such as people, peace, partnership, planet, and prosperity”, in his opening remarks Almaz Isanov, Head of the Department of Political and Economic Research of the President’s Administration of the Kyrgyz Republic, stated. He emphasized the importance of intersectoral development, with a particular attention paid to human rights, gender equality and environmental, protection, and noted the Government’s full understanding with the UN on the Sustainable Development Goals, considering the impact of global processes on Kyrgyzstan, including COVID-19.

Christine Jaulmes, UNRC a.i., UNICEF Representative, said, “It is symbolic to hold this strategic workshop this year, when we celebrate the 30th Anniversary of Kyrgyzstan’s UN membership. The country needs not only knowledge and expertise on the SDGs, but also adequate financing; it is critical. It is time to stimulate private investment, both domestic and direct foreign investment, so that they can complement public funding and contribute to the development strategy. UNDP and UNICEF are currently working together with the Presidential Administration and the Government in designing the Integrated National Financial Framework (INFF).” UNRC a.i. expressed commitment to provide continued assistance in attaining the SDG targets in line with the ‘leave no one behind’ principle and thanked the Presidential Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers for strong commitment to the SDGs, integrating the SDGs in the national development agenda, and their aspirations to become a regional leader in the Agenda 2030.

Vesna Dzuteska-Bisheva, Head of Sustainable Development Programme of the UNDP Istanbul Regional Hub, emphasized that this training was taking place at a crucial moment. “Globally, the development trajectory is at the crossroad, with multiple risks for people, societies, and economies. The COVID-19 pandemic has stalled the progress towards the SDGs, threatening to wipe out the development gains attained in the previous two decades in poverty eradication, prosperity and progress. Basically, the confluence of health, economic, environmental and political emergencies, the record high food, energy and commodity prices, rising interest rates burden and put pressure on the recovery, putting at risk the economy to plunge into a new recession.” She stated that with only eight years left until 2030, the success of achieving the SDGs would require a fundamental shift in the development model and policy priorities including an increasing investment in people, expansion of social protection coverage, provision of quality education, creation of decent jobs, transition to renewable energy and ensuring digitalization for all. Ms. Dzuteska-Bisheva stressed the importance of integrating the SDGs into the national financing framework and praised continued commitment of the Presidential Administration to support the ongoing development finance assessment and the preparation of the INFF. She expressed hope to hear about the outcome of the workshop discussion as part of one of the regional events to be organized with UNDP and EU support on SDGs platform for Central Asia.

The induction workshop was delivered during the weekend to ensure uninterrupted deep dive of the government staff into SDG discussion. The sessions, covering complex interlinkages of the SDGs, broad-based coordination with stakeholders, integration with national programmes, means of SDGs implementation, INFF, as well as UN Reforms, UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) and its alignment with national priorities, was delivered by international and local experts, including current and former SDG champions of the President Administration and the Government, UN agencies' staff members, policy, economic, environmental, social and gender experts.


The expected results of the induction workshop is, with more knowledge about all dimensions of SDGs and their adaptation and implementation in the Kyrgyz Republic gained, an agreed action plan to continue capacity strengthening events on SDGs to ensure whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach in SDG implementation in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Background:
UNDP’s Rapid Integrated Assessment (RIA) conducted in early 2020 highlighted that the alignment of the SDGs with national strategic development planning is at 82%.  Although the alignment is high, the implementation challenges remain in all areas of SDGs adaptation and implementation, including integration (not declarative), of SDGs into development programs at all levels- national, sectoral and regional, making budgeting and monitoring aligned with SDGs, data issues and limited financial resources and weak capacity to work on SDG integration at full scale.
Please see more photos here.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/192844-un-holds-sdgs-induction-workshop-new-staff-presidents-administration




Date: 28 July 2022
Title: Secretary-General appoints Antje Grawe of Germany as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 28 July 2022
United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres appointed Antje Grawe of Germany as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan, with the host Government’s approval. She takes up her post on 31 July.
Ms. Grawe brings more than 20 years of experience in international cooperation, sustainable development and peace and security with the United Nations and other international and bilateral organizations.
Prior to her appointment as UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Grawe served for three and a half years with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine, first as Deputy Chief Monitor leading the Mission's work in the fields of human rights, gender, environment and dialogue facilitation, since April this year as Acting Head of Mission.
Earlier, she served with UN Political and Peace Operations in various leadership and senior advisory roles in Afghanistan, Haiti and for the Office of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Yemen (OSESGY). In Afghanistan, she led the Regional Office of the United Nations Assistance Mission (UNAMA) in Herat and was the Head of the Mission's Analysis and Planning Unit. In the OSESGY, she served as Senior Peacebuilding Officer after having advised the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) as Senior Special Assistant for nearly four years.
Ms. Grawe also worked with the German Government at the Embassy in Pakistan as Counsellor for Economic Cooperation and Development and as Desk Officer for Afghanistan in the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) in Bonn, in addition to positions with the German Corporation for International Cooperation (GIZ) at its Headquarters in Germany and in Afghanistan.
Ms. Antje Grawe holds a master’s degree in Political Science and History from the University in Trier, Germany. She also holds a certificate in political science from the Institut d’Études Politiques in Bordeaux, France, and studied at Universities in Krakow and Warsaw in Poland.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/192527-secretary-general-appoints-antje-grawe-germany-united-nations-resident-coordinator




Date: 22 July 2022
Title: The Government of Japan and WFP join forces to build sustainable businesses in remote villages of the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 22 July 2022
Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic – UN World Food Program in the Kyrgyz Republic (WFP), with the financial support from the Government of Japan and in partnership with “Dordoi-Dary” (private sector partner), established a mini-processing workshop to extract high-value essential oils and the production of dried herbs in At-Bashy district, Naryn province.
The new medicinal herb-processing workshop will allow the villagers to benefit from cultivation and supply of large variety of herbs for production of high-quality products utilized in several industries such as cosmetics, food, medicine and pharmaceutics.
“It is difficult to objectively evaluate ourselves and our surroundings. Sometimes there is value in what we are not aware of and what we take for granted. This is exactly what this workshop is about - the nature in this area has value, and by commercializing the gifts of nature, we can generate income and provide employment opportunities for people in this region”, said Shigeki Maeda, Ambassador of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic.
The workshop has a production capacity of processing up to 3,000 kg of herbs per day and will employ up to 10 people from low-income families, depending on the season. Additionally, 1,000 vulnerable smallholders benefitted by participaiting in trainings on herb planting agro-technologies (chamomile, valerian, calendula, sage, mint) to supply raw materials to the workshop.
“We thank the Government of Japan for its support to smallholder farmers in remote areas of the country,” said Kojiro Nakai, WFP Country Director and Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic. “The support is very timely in the midst of high food prices and the shocks of COVID-19. Through Public-Private Partnership, ties between the government, businesses and farmers were strengthened, creating opportunities to diversify and increase the income of vulnerable people.”
With the support from the Government of Japan, WFP has launched 20 mini agricultural processing workshops around the country over the past years, providing modern equipment and technology to local businesses. Enterprises, such as processing essential oils, drying and preserving fruits and vegetables, producing dairy products or wool, stimulates agricultural production and improves the food security of vulnerable smallholders.
#                                    #                                              #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

For more information please contact:
Almaz Tchoroev, WFP Kyrgyzstan
Mobile.: +996550577597, e-mail: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/191397-government-japan-and-wfp-join-forces-build-sustainable-businesses-remote-villages-kyrgyz




Date: 14 July 2022
Title: A press tour on the locust project was held in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 14 July 2022

Every year, Kyrgyzstan, like the entire Central Asian region, is threatened by locust infestations, which do not spare anything on their way, reaching huge numbers of individuals in their population. Having no borders, locusts pose a significant threat food security, economic development, and human health.
Since 2015 FAO supports capacity strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture by implementing projects with the financial support of the Government of Japan and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), as part of the FAO “Programme to improve national and regional locust management in Caucasus and Central Asia (CCA)”.
On July 6, a press tour to the fields was organized, which was attended by Mr. Maeda Shigeki, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic, Ms. Dinara Rakhmanova, AFAOR in Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Azamat Mukashev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture in the Kyrgyz Republic and Mr. Esentur Bektursun uulu, Representative from JICA.
The purpose of this tour was to present the results of the locust project, as well as to transfer equipment, training manuals and personal protective equipment to improve pest control by the Ministry of Agriculture, as part of the current phase 2 of the locust project.
“The project “phase 1” was signed during the official visit of former Prime Minister Abe to Central Asia in 2015, and was implemented in Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Afghanistan. Now the “phase 2” expanded its target to all Central Asian countries and Afghanistan with the total amount of 7.5 Mil$, which demonstrates how much Japan puts a huge emphasis on food security of the region”, - said in his welcoming speech Mr. Maeda Shigeki, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic.
Thanks to the constant and stable assistance to the Government of Kyrgyzstan from donors and technical support from FAO, which implements its Programme since 2011, locust outbreaks in the country have not been noticed for a very long time.
“The strengthening of human and operational capacities, with introduction of world-wide recognized best practices, are key to improve locust monitoring and control while limiting impact on human health and environment”, - pointed Ms. Dinara Rakhmanova, AFAOR in Kyrgyzstan. “The project introduces an improved mechanism for responding to locust outbreaks, using less toxic pesticides and preparations for biological pest control. Efforts are aimed at ensuring food security and improving the well-being of the rural population of Kyrgyzstan by preventing threats and reducing damage from pest invasions.”
The results that were presented to the participants of the press tour show that the joint efforts of all project participants, new knowledge and advanced technology can timely prevent the most severe consequences and possible food crises that arise due to locusts around the world.
“It should be particularly noted that the timely and prompt execution of control measures by the Department of Chemicalization, Protection and Quarantine of Plants, with the support of FAO and respectful donors, helped prevent damage to agricultural crops, pastures and ensure food security of Kyrgyzstan", - said Deputy Minister of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic, Mr. Azamat Mukashev.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/190108-press-tour-locust-project-was-held-kyrgyzstan




Date: 07 July 2022
Title: The UN calls on Kyrgyzstan to intensify curbing violence against women and girls
Content: 07 July 2022
While acknowledging the recent efforts made by the State to promote gender equality, and the rights of women and girls, the UN system in Kyrgyzstan expresses concern with the aggravate forms of cases of gender-based violence reported in recent months and the continuing impunity for the perpetrators of violence against women and girls.
Since 1996, the Kyrgyz Republic is a party to the international treaty Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) which commits the country to eliminate discrimination against women and girls in all areas and promote women’s and girls’ equal rights. The UN commends the commitment of the Kyrgyz republic in submitting its fifth periodic report to the CEDAW committee in 2021.  Following the submission, the CEDAW Committee recommended that the state should intensify its efforts to prevent, protect and assist victims, and bring perpetrators to justice, as per Concluding Observations to Kyrgyzstan issued in November 2021 (link: CEDAW Kyrgyzstan 2021).
The UN system urges the Government to accelerate the prompt and adequate investigation by law enforcement agencies of all crimes of violence against women and girls, and to provide all women and girls of Kyrgyzstan access to redress. In line with international standards, family reconciliation measures should not be forced upon victims of violence in lieu of a proper investigation and access to a due process of justice.
The UN system further urges the government to intensify awareness-raising among public servants and general public on the criminal nature of all forms of gender-based violence, including domestic and sexual violence, and to support the population and civil society in rejecting such crimes. Particular care must be taken to protect children and adolescents, women migrants, women living with HIV, women with disabilities and women from other vulnerable groups from discrimination, exploitation, and gender-based violence.
The UN acknowledges many positive efforts by stakeholders to date and affirms to continue supporting the government in its efforts to address gender-based violence, change social attitudes that normalise domestic violence, and develop the capacity of the law enforcement agencies and justice system on meeting the needs of women and girls.
Background
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in 2021 there were 604 cases of rape, 53% of them were terminated due to lack of substantial evidence. There were 254 cases of abduction, of which 84% were terminated for the same reason. In 2021, there were 10,151 registered cases of domestic violence. Victims of family violence were issued 9,038 temporary protection orders, of which 8,463 were issued to women and 264 to minors.
As of 2022, according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, 3,988 cases of domestic violence were registered in the first 5 months of 2022.
===============
End of mission statement by the Working Group on discrimination against women and girls visit to Kyrgyzstan I April 2022
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/189361-un-calls-kyrgyzstan-intensify-curbing-violence-against-women-and-girls




Date: 28 June 2022
Title: Switzerland allocates USD 2,2 million to support most vulnerable rural communities in climate change and disaster risks resilience
Content: 28 June 2022
Today, on 28 June, the Swiss Ambassador Olivier Bangerter and the Country Director of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) Kojiro Nakai have signed an agreement on the Swiss contribution to the WFP’s Country Strategic Plan for 2018-2022 (CSP).
The Government of Switzerland will allocate USD 2,2 million for the WFP CSP pillar aimed at building the resilience of the most vulnerable rural communities against climate change and disaster risks. This component is being implemented by WFP in partnership with the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The activities within the pillar will cover Osh, Batken and Naryn provinces and support around 50’000 most vulnerable households, as well as targeted local authorities and institutions on the national level to build a systemic approach in managing hazards, such as droughts, mudslides, floods, etc. Reliable and timely climate information, disaster-resilient planning and selected infrastructure support will be provided to the beneficiaries.
Disaster risk management activities will also be strengthened to prepare for climate related hazards and reduce their impact on food and nutrition security. The vulnerable communities will be provided with food and livestock security insurance tools and will be trained on build-back-better mechanisms.
The contribution implementation is foreseen for 1 year.
For more information about the project and WFP, please contact: Almaz Tchoroev, Communications Officer,
tel: +996 550 577 597, email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org
For more information on Swiss Development Cooperation, please contact: Tursunai Chodurova, Communications Officer, Swiss Embassy/Bishkek, tel: +996 770 710054, email: tursunai.chodurova@eda.admin.ch
***
The Government of Switzerland provides assistance for the development of the Kyrgyz Republic. Since 1994, Switzerland has granted more than CHF 450 million to Kyrgyzstan in the form of technical, financial and humanitarian support. For more information, please visit https://www.eda.admin.ch/bishkek.
Follow us on www.facebook.com/SwissEmbassyKyrgyzstan, www.instagram.com/swissembkyrgyz
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/, https://www.instagram.com/wfp_kyrgyzstan
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/188035-switzerland-allocates-usd-22-million-support-most-vulnerable-rural-communities-climate




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: With the support from the European Union, WHO, together with the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic, conducted a ceremony of handing over Family Doctor’s Bags as a continuation of basic services at primary health care during the COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 20 June 2022
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan – The World Health Organization (WHO) Country Office in Kyrgyzstan provided technical support to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic and its structural divisions in the continuation of basic health services with the financial support of the European Union. The purpose of the activities is to ensure uninterrupted basic services at Primary Health Care.
WHO purchased 190 family doctors bags for family doctors for their daily home visits and provision of basic services to families at the primary health care level. The bags contain essential medical equipment for measuring blood pressure, blood glucose level, hemoglobin and basic urine tests. Pulse-oximeters, thermometers, torniquets, torches and fetal stethoscopes will enable doctors in their daily obstetric and pediatric services. Moreover, the contents of bags include a portable fetal doppler device for detection and recording of fetal heart rate in pregnant women. The bags are very convenient to carry for home visits as well as patient visits to Family Health Centers. The distribution of bags took place in Chui oblast as a pilot initiative.
Besides the bags 6 Family Health Centers will receive Hemoque blood analyzers for prompt blood hemoglobin detection in patients with anemia and with acute health emergencies.
“We note with satisfaction that provision of family doctor’s bags and Hemoque equipment will not only improve access to primary health care but significantly upgrade the quality of care at the primary level. Doctors will feel more confident and respected when they visit their patients and provide quality and complex care to all family members of all ages. Patients’ satisfaction and trust in health care will also improve,” said Nazira Artykova, WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan. “This initiative is so far as a pilot. In two months’ time, we will gather the information and feedback from doctors whether provided equipment and consumables were useful or not.”
“WHO’s continuous support with financial assistance from the EU helps to firstly support and encourage family doctors on the spot and improve access and quality care towards the continuation of basic services,” commented Acting Minister of Health Zharkynbek Orozbekovich Kasymbekov.
***
Background: As part of the continuation of basic services in primary health care, WHO supported the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic in 2020-21 by the provision of essential drugs for the treatment of asthma, hypertension and diabetes countrywide. Moreover, every patient with diabetes was provided with an individual glucose meter with 500 blood strips. Family doctors were provided with pulse oximeters, personal protective equipment and other medical consumables. 55 mobile immunization teams were created for the continuation of child immunization at all places in Kyrgyzstan. Mental health care and psychological support to medical staff to protect them from burnout are provided.
WHO organized this event as part of the “COVID-19 in Central Asia: Crisis Response" (CACCR) program”, funded by the European Union (EU) and the WHO Regional Office for Europe. This Project covers Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan and is designed to help to prevent, detect and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in these countries.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/187104-support-european-union-who-together-ministry-health-kyrgyz-republic-conducted-ceremony




Date: 13 June 2022
Title: Deputy Secretary-General visited Kyrgyzstan
Content: 13 June 2022
The Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed, traveled to Kyrgyzstan on 10-11 June 2022 as part of her trip to Central Asia.

She met with President Sadyr Zhaparov and Chair of Cabinet of Ministers Akylbek Zhaparov and delivered opening remarks at the signature ceremony for the new Cooperation Framework between the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and the United Nations.
The five-year Cooperation Framework has been designed in close collaboration and partnership with the Government, civil society, private sector and development partners and aims to bring about transformational change against priorities of inclusive green socio-economic growth, community resilience to climate change, peace and human rights.
In her remarks, the Deputy Secretary-General commended the Government of Kyrgyzstan for its strong voice for multilateralism, commitment to net-zero emissions and building an inclusive green economy, while stressing on the importance of empowering youth, gender equality and human rights for a stable intergenerational transition and growth. She noted that that the ongoing food security challenges pose an opportunity to reform food systems.

On Saturday, Ms. Mohammed traveled to Kyrgyzstan’s mountainous region of Naryn to have an aerial view of climate change-impacted glaciers that feed vital cross-border rivers in Central Asia, especially in the populous Ferghana valley. In the afternoon, she met with some beneficiaries of the EU-UN Joint Spotlight Initiative Programme, which works directly with about 14 thousand women, men, girls and boys across the country with an aim of eliminating gender-based violence. The Deputy Secretary-General also discussed with local youth leaders their ongoing collective efforts in achieving the SDGs in the country by 2030.


UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/193567-deputy-secretary-general-visited-kyrgyzstan




Date: 10 June 2022
Title: With the support from the European Union, WHO, together with the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic, conducted another simulation exercise (SimEx) at Manas International Airport
Content: 10 June 2022
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan – The World Health Organization (WHO) Country Office in Kyrgyzstan provided technical support to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic and its structural divisions in organizing a full-scale field exercise at Manas International Airport with the financial support of the European Union. The purpose of the exercise is to evaluate in practice the current operational plan in case of detection and suspicion of infectious diseases causing a public health emergency.
The exercise scenario included four stages: a simulated period of 30 minutes before landing, stopping and parking the aircraft, managing patients, and examining passengers. During the exercise, participants performed standard activities according to approved procedures and performed the actual tasks required to respond to the importation of an infectious disease.
“We note with satisfaction that conducting simulation exercises is becoming a trend in Kyrgyzstan. Such simulation exercises are an important and integral part of emergency preparedness. Their task is to develop or conduct monitoring and assessment of existing capabilities by creating a simulation of an evolving emergency,” said Nazira Artykova, Representative and Head of the WHO Country Office in Kyrgyzstan. “They help identify and close gaps in pre-emergency response capabilities by giving people the opportunity to practice their roles and responsibilities and gain experience during a simulated emergency. Today's exercise helped us understand where gaps may arise and what improvements and improvements are possible in the context of our country.”
“COVID -19 has demonstrated that our response systems are vulnerable and we must continue to prepare for future pandemics and public health threats. No one will be safe until we make everyone safe. And such simulation exercises are aimed at testing and improving plans for the purposes of common security”, said Mr. Hans Farnhammer, Head of the Cooperation Section of the Delegation of the European Union to the Kyrgyz Republic, in his welcoming speech.
“Conducting practical exercises helps to firstly test our operating procedures, secondly, improve them before the real situation arises, and thirdly, build public health capacity to respond to emergencies and prepare for future threats. I want to thank all partners for their assistance in organizing large-scale practical exercises,” commented Deputy Minister of Health Bubuzhan Arykbaeva.
The exercise was attended by many stakeholders, including representatives of the Department of Disease Prevention and State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance of the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Center for State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance on Transport of the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republican Center for Quarantine and Highly Dangerous Infections, the Border Service of the State Committee for National Security of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Customs Service of the Ministry of Finance KR, the Veterinary Inspectorate under the Ministry of Agriculture of the KR, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the KR, the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the KR and the Directorate of the Manas International Airport and representatives of the EU Delegation to the Kyrgyz Republic.
***
Background: This simulation exercise is the fourth (from 2019 to 2022) of its kind organized as part of WHO country activities to support emergency preparedness and response. They were an example of strong and coordinated multisectoral collaboration to ensure readiness of the country's Public Health services.
WHO organized this event as part of the “COVID-19 in Central Asia: Crisis Response" (CACCR) program”, funded by the European Union (EU) and the WHO Regional Office for Europe. This Project covers Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan and is designed to help to prevent, detect and respond to COVID-19 pandemic in these countries.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/187105-support-european-union-who-together-ministry-health-kyrgyz-republic-conducted-another




Date: 01 June 2022
Title: Working on Healthy and Safe Food Products in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 01 June 2022
A consultation seminar on health and food safety dedicated to the World Food Safety Day is being held in Bishkek
Every year, in Kyrgyzstan, on the occasion of  the World Food Safety Day, representatives of state authorities, academia, food businesses, farmers and processors gather to discuss the work done, challenges and plans in the field of health and food safety.
Today, in Bishkek, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), together with the Department of Disease Prevention and State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance of the Ministry of Health, is holding a consultation seminar “Safer food – better health” to start the  World Food Safety Day celebrations, which is aimed at informing representatives of the food businesses, trade and competent authorities about the importance and role of the use of healthy nutrition for the population.
In addition, the seminar is aimed at highlighting the main provisions of the technical regulations of the EAEU in the field of food safety, including the system of labeling and tracking of food and food products, the application of new practices and food promotion policies in the field of food safety and nutrition, which directly affects both the economic and social condition of the country.
According to FAO Food Safety and Consumer Protection Officer, Mary Kenny: “It is clear that food safety is a priority in Krygyzstan. State authorities are committed to work together on food safety policies and controls for all foods, including fruits and vegetables, meat and fish, dairy products.  We also learned about the important role of farmers, food businesses, and consumers to follow good practices for safe, quality foods, from farm to fork.”
In addition to technical presentations and discussions, the award ceremony was held to announce winners of the competition among schoolchildren and students for the best videos on the importance of nutrition, healthy and safe food. The competition itself was held from May 10 to 25, 2022.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/184440-working-healthy-and-safe-food-products-kyrgyzstan




Date: 12 May 2022
Title: UN in Kyrgyzstan and AIFC sign MoU on Joint Promotion of Green Financial Instruments and Investments in Social and Environmental Projects
Content: 12 May 2022
On 12 May 2022, in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic Ozonnia Ojielo and Chairman of the Management Board of Astana International Financial Centre Authority (AIFCA) Yernur Rysmagambetov signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU).



The MoU is aimed at promoting sustainable finance instruments, including green finance, and was concluded as part of the UN Country Team’s (UNCT) visit to Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan on 12-13 May 2022 to meet with potential financial partners and discuss collaboration opportunities to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The UNCT exchanged ideas with representatives of the Astana International Finance Centre (AIFC) and its subsidiaries, including the AIFC Court, Arbitration Centre, Astana International Exchange, Business Connect, Green Finance Centre, Tech Hub, and Islamic Finance and Business Hub, Bureau of Continuing Professional Development (BCPD).

The UNCT and AIFC representatives discussed a broad range of development issues, including human capital development, especially empowerment of women, through harnessing their skills to better access the international markets. The CEO of Green Finance Centre (GFC) Aidar Kazybaev informed that GFC is opening its office in Bishkek, GFC Bishkek, which will offer new green products and services, as well as support potential issuers and investors in preparation for the issuance of green bonds on the Kyrgyz Stock Exchange.

UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo stressed the importance of “increasing the mode of engagement and degree of partnership to bring about economic and social transformation”. UNCT and AIFC subsidiaries agreed that the digitalization is key to green economy-based development leading to tangible changes in lives of vulnerable groups such as women and children. Expanding digital opportunities to agricultural and other sectors and financing innovative initiatives was discussed as one of the priority areas to prototype and pilot new development solutions.

UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo further stated, “We see significant conjunctures and many overlaps between the new UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework across a range of services that AIFC offers. We will go back and reflect on how we can take the connecting points forward and have a more substantial collaboration between the UN and AIFC.”

UNCT expresses gratitude to Ms. Nazira Beshenalieva, Senior Advisor to the Chairman of the AIFC Board, for her help and assistance that resulted in a very successful visit.
More photos are here.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/181993-un-kyrgyzstan-and-aifc-sign-mou-joint-promotion-green-financial-instruments-and-investments




Date: 12 May 2022
Title: UN in Kyrgyzstan and Islamic Development Bank Regional Hub discuss strengthening collaboration for greater impact
Content: 12 May 2022
As part of the two-day working visit to Nur-Sultan, on 12 May 2022 the UN Country Team led by UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo met with the Head of the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) Regional Hub Kazakhstan Ibrahim Shoukry and his team. The UN Country Team and the representative of the IsDB discussed strategic collaboration and the ongoing projects, as well as exchanged ideas on expanding opportunities to take project-based ideas to the next level to  ensure their increased sustainability.

The IsDB representative Ibrahim Shoukry provided an overview of the IsDB activities, including the ongoing joint projects, and priorities in the region and the Kyrgyz Republic and presented initial ideas for collaboration in the energy sector, water and agriculture, social sector (health and education).

The potential interventions in energy sector include solar power solutions and crowdfunding. As for the water and agriculture, the sides discussed the need for improvement of the sewerage and sanitations system in rural areas, such as in Jalal-Abad, Batken, and Talas, reinforced with public awareness campaign targeting vulnerable groups: women and children. The IsDB representative suggested further work with UN agencies to develop a project for building improved seed supply system in the country as well as digitizing agriculture support services, to promote financial inclusion through development of Rural or SME Finance programs, to support affordable housing. Joint activities in the areas related to disaster risk reduction/ climate hazards, vocational training for youth in vulnerable areas, social protection program (microfinancing and targeting systems) were discussed in detail as well.
In terms of social sector, the IsDB representative informed about the ongoing preparations for projects aimed at improving technical capacity of health facilities to provide better services.

UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo stressed the importance of engaging a wider group of actors to share costs and to create a momentum for transformative initiatives, especially in the sub regional perspective with increased shared prosperity leading to more stability, peace and stronger economies. He highlighted complementarity of comparative advantages of UN entities in a whole of UN approach to achieve greater impact. UNRC suggested to set up a task team to develop the proposed ideas into concrete areas of collaboration leveraging all the assets of the UN system and the sides agreed to engage in a continued conversation to materialize the ideas discussed.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/182598-un-kyrgyzstan-and-islamic-development-bank-regional-hub-discuss-strengthening-collaboration




Date: 25 April 2022
Title: Investment opportunities for climate-smart agrifood tech in Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 25 April 2022
While food security is a renewed source of concern at the global level, the greening of agrifood systems remains a top priority to limit its impacts on climate change and natural resources.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and FAO released two new reports that explore climate-smart technical solutions in the agrifood sector in Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic.
EBRD and FAO’s Finance and Technology Transfer Centre for Climate Change (FINTECC) programme developed the reports, which are funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
The two institutions highlight in the reports, opportunities for investment in selected crop-farming technologies and practices – including conservation agriculture, drip irrigation, pasture improvement, and precision agriculture – to stimulate economic growth and advance climate change mitigation and adaptation.
These practices come at lower cost compared to other climate technologies and practices, while supporting adaptation goals. The findings can guide policy-makers and inform public and private institutions towards investments in greening the agrifood sector. The FINTECC partners collaborated to develop a practical rapid assessment methodology to identify and prioritize climate technologies and practices in the agrifood sector, based on their potential to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, support climate change adaptation, and contribute to economic development.
“The aim of the research was to identify key climate technologies and practices which mitigate greenhouse gases, demonstrate good economic and environmental performance, and do not face major barriers to adoption. These constitute ‘low-hanging fruits’ for producers and small and medium sized enterprises as well as for investors and policy-makers,” said Nuno Santos, FAO economist, co-author of the studies.
The methodology wasfirst applied in Morocco in 2015–2016. During 2017–2018, the revised methodology was applied in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
Agrifood systems: reducing emissions and building resilience
Agrifood systems are major contributors to greenhouse gas emissions and are increasingly under pressure to become more resource-efficient. The sector also faces increasing threats from climate change, due to its dependence on natural resources.
Addressing climate change mitigation and adaptation challenges in the agrifood sector requires radical changes in food production systems. Targeted investments in agrifood systems are urgently needed to decrease emissions whilst improving food security through increasing resilience to extreme weather events. Accelerating the adoption of climate smart technologies and practices is an essential element of this transition towards more sustainable food systems.
“We highlight opportunities and challenges to invest in the most promising climate technologies and practices to the required scale,” said Maria del Mar Polo, agricultural economist at FAO Food Systems and Food Safety, co-author of the reports. “For some technologies such as drip irrigation, or pasture improvement, regulatory frameworks must be strengthened. In other cases, the private sector must be made aware of the promising technologies, and supported technically to encourage adoption.”
Opportunities for climate-smart investments
The study weighed up 11 agrifood technologies and practices – grouped under crop farming, livestock, renewables and energy efficient technologies in the Kyrgyz Republic and Kazakhstan - and developed an overall ranking by considering their mitigation and adaptation potential as well as financial viability.
Pasture improvement practices – including rotational grazing, infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance – can lead to mitigation benefits through increasing soil carbon sequestration. These practices also bring adaptation benefits, such as higher pasture and livestock yields, and improved resilience to temperature and water stress, through reducing soil erosion.
Similarly, conservation agriculture brings mitigation and adaptation co-benefits through reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing agricultural production and crop resilience as a result of soil quality improvements.
“Climate-smart technologies and practices present opportunities for addressing climate change challenges, stimulating economic growth and promoting sustainable development within the food and agricultural systems in Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic,” said Gianpiero Nacci, Deputy Director, Energy Efficiency and Climate Change, EBRD.
The reports advocate for private sector investment in improved greenhouses, precision agriculture, drip irrigation, improved livestock production and conservation agriculture, which provide high rates of return and shorter payback periods. Financial support – in the form of matching grants or concessionary lending – should focus on those technologies that are less attractive from a purely private sector perspective, despite their large mitigation and adaptation benefits.
The reports also call for crucial state support to agricultural finance, innovation and knowledge management, and public investments in agricultural research. Further examination of the barriers to deployment faced by these technologies will help identify opportunities for policy enhancement.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/179059-investment-opportunities-climate-smart-agrifood-tech-kazakhstan-and-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 21 April 2022
Title: WFP assists the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Migration of the Kyrgyz Republic and the State Agency for Civil Service and Local Self-Government Affairs to support the digitalization of the Social Protection System
Content: 21 April 2022
The United Nations World Food Program (WFP) has donated IT equipment to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Migration of the Kyrgyz Republic (MLSSM) and the State Agency for Civil Service and Local Self-Government Affairs (SACSLSGA) to support the digitalization process of the Social Protection System.
The ceremonial handing over of equipment took place within the framework of WFP’s “Digitalisation of the National Social Registry – Digital Social Passports” project. The financing and procurement of the vital equipment and technical support are a significant contribution of WFP to the National Social Protection System and the development of the digital skills of government and Ayil Okmotu staff. In addition, WFP provided capacity building trainings for social workers to implement the digitalization of Social Passports. The Government co-financed parts of the project by developing the digital form, database and conducted pilpoting activities.
"WFP remains one of the closest partners of the Ministry. Since 2013, we have jointly implemented a number of successful projects to improve the food security, nutrition and well-being of vulnerable families. Today we thank WFP for its generous contribution, which will change the work of the Ministry for the better," said Nurdoolot Bazarbaev, Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Welfare and Migration of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The equipment will be used in 74 rural and regional district representatives of MLSSM to develop a digital database of vulnerable low-income families. This, in turn, will improve the efficience, data security, as well as enable better targeting and tracking, analysis and monitoring of low-income families. In addition, the digital Social Passport system will be integrated to the Government Information System “Tunduk” to ensure effective information exchange and timely update of data.
“The main task of our agency is to improve the unified state policy in the field of public service, municipal service and local self-government, as well as to improve and optimize the system of public administration and local self-government. With the support of WFP, we will be able to provide local government employees with the necessary equipment and improve the digitalization process,” said Dzhantaev Elchibek Nurzhadievich Director of the State Agency for Civil Service and Local Self-Government
Currently, the Social Passport (individual profiles of poor households) registry is paper based, which limits its usage and overall analysis of beneficiary data.
“WFP is guided by the principles of “leaving no one behind”, especially low-income families struggling to recover from socio-economic shocks. Through the digitalization of Social Passports, poor families will be able to register in the government database and receive certain benefits through medical and educational institutions, while the Government will improve targeting and establish a unified database of poor families,” said Hilke David, WFP Deputy Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/178833-wfp-assists-ministry-labour-social-security-and-migration-kyrgyz-republic-and-state-agency




Date: 15 April 2022
Title: Kyrgyzstan at a crossroads: “Immense opportunity to harness potential of women” – UN experts
Content: 15 April 2022
Kyrgyzstan has taken notable strides towards women’s rights and gender equality since gaining independence in 1991, but serious challenges remain in areas such as socio-economic disparities, deep-rooted patriarchal attitudes and rising religious fundamentalism, UN human rights experts said today.
“Kyrgyzstan stands at a crossroads with an immense opportunity to harness the potential of women,” the UN Working Group on discrimination against women and girls said in a statement at the end of their 12-day visit to the country.
The experts acknowledged new laws and institutional measures focusing on gender equality, as well as targeted programmes and initiatives aimed at combatting patriarchal attitudes and harmful stereotypes. They were however concerned at the narrow conceptual framing of key legal concepts such as discrimination and the gaps in implementation of the laws.
“While formal commitments have been made to advance women’s rights and gender equality, the leading root causes and drivers of gender-based discrimination and violence, which in the Kyrgyz context include harmful gender stereotyping, lack of economic opportunity and security for women and girls, are not being systematically addressed by duty-bearers.”
“Addressing gender stereotypes is at the core of ensuring women and girls can enjoy their rights equally with men and boys”, the experts said.
“Despite Kyrgyzstan being a secular State, rising religious extremism is limiting women and girl’s progress whilst reinforcing attitudes about women’s role as procreators and child-bearers and impeding important conversations challenging traditional norms.”
“There are also gaps in the legal framework with regard to violence against women, including in the definition of rape and in relation to sexual violence within marriage” the experts said. “The prevalence of gender-based violence further limits women’s capacity to build assets and participate in all aspects of national development and undermines the benefits that women in Kyrgyzstan could gain from the new progressive laws.”
“We are concerned at the limited enforcement of the temporary protection orders, the lack of victim support and the barriers to women’s and girls’ access to justice in cases of gender-based violence. When the system fails women, the outcome can be catastrophic, including early deaths, killings, injuries and disabilities.”
“Furthermore, we call on the authorities to ensure a safe and enabling environment for all women’s and girls’ organizations who play a central role in ensuring a healthy democracy and the fulfilment of human rights.”
The Working Group issued a series of recommendations, including calling for the collection of gender-disaggregated data and ensuring gender responsive budgeting for all programmes and implementation of laws and decrees. “Proper data collection and its analysis would positively influence policy development,” the experts said.
The Working Group met national and local authorities, women and girls, civil society organisations, academics, journalists, elected women leaders, UN entities and other international stakeholders in Bishkek city, and Issyk Kul and Osh regions.
The Working Group will present its final report to the Human Rights Council in June 2023.
ENDS
The UN Working Group on discrimination against women and girls was created by the Human Rights Council in 2011 to identify, promote and exchange views, in consultation with States and other actors, on good practices related to the elimination of laws that discriminate against women. The Group is also tasked with developing a dialogue with States and other actors on laws that have a discriminatory impact where women are concerned.
The Working Group is composed of five independent experts: Ms Melissa Upreti (Nepal), Chairperson; Ms Dorothy Estrada Tanck (Vice Chair); Ms Elizabeth Broderick (Australia); Ms Ivana Radačić (Croatia); and Ms Meskerem Geset Techane (Ethiopia).
The Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
For further inquiries and media requests, please contact:
wgdawprofessionalteam@ohchr.org
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts, please contact Renato Rosario De Souza (renato.rosariodesouza@un.org) or Jeremy Laurence (+ 41 79 444 7578 / jeremy.laurence@un.org).
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at
http://www.standup4humanrights.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/177860-kyrgyzstan-crossroads-%E2%80%9Cimmense-opportunity-harness-potential-women%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-un-experts




Date: 13 April 2022
Title: WFP AND GOOD NEIGHBORS INTERNATIONAL HELP SCHOOLS TO PROVIDE BETTER AND DIVERSE NUTRITION FOR SCHOOLCHILDREN
Content: 13 April 2022
Toktogul – A pilot greenhouse project to supplement school meals with locally-grown fresh vegetables is launched at school No. 29 named after M. Nurgaziev in Uch-Terek village of Jalal-Abad province. The programme aims to strengthen the capacity of all Kyrgyz primary schools to prepare and serve fresh and nutritious meals throughout the country.
This multi-stakeholder initiative was realized through the partnership of Uch-Terek Local Government, Good Neighbors International in the Kyrgyz Republic, and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in order to optimize the National School Meals Programme of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The greenhouse ensures that children have all year access to organic vegetables and fresh fruits, as well as provide additional income for the school to enrich the meal menu. To make the best use of the fresh produce grown in their backyard, the staff at the school and cooks were trained in nutrition, the development of a diverse menu and offered the possibility to improve their cooking skills.
“Agricultural initiatives are an essential component of school feeding,” said WFP Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic, Kojiro Nakai. “With this approach, schools have access to fresh fruits and vegetables to prepare healthy and nutritious meals all year around, including in the colder months. The school gardens are also learning centres where children can obtain knowledge on agriculture.”
The new greenhouse is built using modern and eco-friendly technologies, heated mainly on solar energy and equipped with a drip irrigation system for better water management. The energy-saving construction is not only financially efficient, also important for environmental sustainability. Based on the good results of this pilot initiative, similar facilities will be launched in other schools across the country.
As of today, WFP has established nine greenhouses across the country to complement school meals and enable the schools to generate income and expand their schoolfeeding programme. School gardens became popular worldwide due to their interdisciplinary and multi-sectoral nature, encouraging a healthy diet, and promoting nutritional and environmental education.
School meals optimization in the Kyrgyz Republic is a widely recognised initiative, which has been receiving critical support from national and local authorities, communities and donors. Today, approximetely 220,000 primary school students receive hot meals in more than 800 schools.
***
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Good Neighbors International is an international humanitarian non-governmental organization with general consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). Founded in 1991, the organization implements and initiates social development projects in 35 countries around the world, whose goal is to improve the quality of life and provide access to education.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/177643-wfp-and-good-neighbors-international-help-schools-provide-better-and-diverse-nutrition




Date: 11 April 2022
Title: Joint Action Plan on Youth policy for 2022 signed between the Ministry of Culture, Information, Sports, Youth Policy  and the UN system in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 11 April 2022
A joint action plan on Youth policy for 2022 was signed between the Ministry of Culture, Information, Sports, Youth Policy  and the UN system in the Kyrgyz Republic
On April 5 the Ministry of Culture, Information, Sports and Youth Policy signed a joint Action Plan on the direction of Youth policy with the UN system in the Kyrgyz Republic for 2022.
The joint plan was signed by the Deputy Minister of Culture, Information, Sports and Youth Policy Soyuzbek Nadyrbekov and UNFPA Head of the Office in the Kyrgyz Republic - Chairman of the UN Youth Theme Group Azamat Baialinov.

The joint plan is signed annually, and in accordance with the plan a number of activities will be carried out for the development of Youth policy in the Kyrgyz Republic.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/177294-joint-action-plan-youth-policy-2022-signed-between-ministry-culture-information-sports-youth




Date: 05 April 2022
Title: Population and Housing Census started on March 25 in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 05 April 2022
Population and Housing Census started on March 25 in Kyrgyzstan.
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan - On March 24, the press conference was held at the Hyatt Hotel on the upcoming Population and Housing Census of the Kyrgyz Republic  where the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Statistical Committee announced the official launch of the population and housing census, which took place from March 25 to April 3, 2022.
Arzybek Kozhoshev, First Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic, Chairman of the Republican Commission on Preparation for the Population and Housing Census, addressed the participants of the event with a welcoming speech. "Population Census is not just statistics; it is a very important historical event of the state level. The results of the census will contribute to the development of effective state programs aimed at improving the living standards of the population," Arzybek Kojoshev stressed.
In his turn, Zainidin Jumaliev, Deputy Chairman of the National Statistical Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic, noted that currently, the National Statistical Committee is ready to conduct this important event for the country. "The uniqueness of the upcoming census is that it will be held electronically for the first time. This will ensure not only the efficiency and effectiveness of the procedure of data collection from respondents but also the convenience of census takers in obtaining information," Zainidin Jumaliev noted.
About 28,000 people from all regions of Kyrgyzstan will be involved in the census campaign, where 25,000 of them will be enumerators. Enumerators are citizens of the Kyrgyz Republic from 18 years old and older, physically active, who know the state and official languages, as well as the mobile application. Census forms include five questionnaires, which contain more than 40 basic questions.
Azamat Bayalinov, Head of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) office in the Kyrgyz Republic, addressed the audience, emphasizing the importance of the census for obtaining detailed information on the demographic and social characteristics of the population.
The National Statistical Committee together with the Health Ministry of the Kyrgyz Republic developed an algorithm of actions in order to avoid the spread of coronavirus infection during the census. Personal protective equipment was purchased with the financial support of development partners, and the National Statistical Committee and its structural subdivisions are now fully prepared for the upcoming census.
The 2022 Population and Housing Census is conducted with the technical support of the UNFPA in the Kyrgyz Republic and funded by the Russian Federation.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/176799-population-and-housing-census-started-march-25-kyrgyzstan




Date: 01 April 2022
Title: WHO donates medical supplies to Kyrgyzstan to strengthen the capacity of human resources in health care
Content: 01 April 2022
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan - Today, World Health Organization (WHO) handed over training dummies on emergency medicine and parenteral and intramuscular drug administration, non-contact thermometers, pulse oximeters, concentrators and computer equipment to the to the Kyrgyz State Medical Institute of Retraining and Continous Education (KSMIR&CE) named after S.B. Daniyarov for total of $39,929 USD.

This donation will be distributed to all seven regional affiliates of the “Nursing in Family Medicine” Chair at the KSMIR&CE and will provide better access to continuous education and improved practical nursing skills for medical colleagues from the regions. All medical supplies and equipment provided meet WHO quality and safety standards, which will ensure the safety of health workers and improve their patient management skills.

During the handover ceremony, representatives of the KSMIR&CE named after S.B. Daniyarov expressed gratitude to WHO for its continuous support and special contribution to capacity building of human resources in health care in Kyrgyzstan.
Note: This assistance was provided by the WHO Country Office in Kyrgyzstan as part of the “Working for Health” Program, which provided technical support to the KR MOH in the area of capacity building of human resources in health care from 2018 to 2021. The support aimed at accelerating the country's progress towards universal health coverage and achievement of the SDGs by ensuring equitable access to health workers within the strengthened health systems, and at expanding and transforming health care and social sector human resources.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/176596-who-donates-medical-supplies-kyrgyzstan-strengthen-capacity-human-resources-health-care




Date: 31 March 2022
Title: UNRC calls on Government to prioritize supporting vulnerable groups in the Government’s anti-crisis plan
Content: 31 March 2022
On 31 March 2022, UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo met with the Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic Akylbek Zhaparov, Deputy Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers Edil Baisalov, and Head of SDG and International Assistance Coordination Department of the Presidential Administration Dinara Duishenkul kyzy to discuss the Government's plan of anti-crisis measures.

The Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers thanked the UN for the long-standing and trustful partnership and discussed how new emerging realities call the Cabinet of Ministers to adjust the strategic mid-term development plans and commitments the Government made to the people of Kyrgyzstan.

The Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers informed that the Government adopted a set of anti-crisis measures aimed to stabilize the economy and protect the most vulnerable groups with total budget of 126 billion soms. In particular, the Government has made additional budget allocations to increase the salaries of the low paid groups: salaries of teachers will be increased by 30-50%, especially teachers of science, math and languages. Additional budget allocations in the amount of 26 million of soms have been made available to support the 500,000 small farmers with low-cost (6%) loans. He also shared plans of the Cabinet of Ministers to raise the size of the monthly benefit package payments to the vulnerable groups from 800 to 1200 soms.
The Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers informed that a new agreement over the Kumtor gold mine was successfully reached and will be signed soon, and that significant funds from the mine revenues might be re-located to support 112,000 most vulnerable households to help them engage in income-generating activities including through the use of alternative sources of energy. The Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers encouraged the UN to repurpose its programmes for 2022 to support the government’s anti-crisis measures.
He also noted that the UNSDCF development process has been a whole-of-the-Government process that was inclusive and assured that the on-going and future UN support will be used efficiently to assist the Government to overcome the challenges and negative impacts on the country’s development.
UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo congratulated the Cabinet of Ministers on the significant progress of the Kumtor mine talks and called on the government to prioritize supporting vulnerable groups, through a strong social protection measures in the Government’s anti-crisis plan. UNRC expressed reassurances that the UN stands ready to continue its support to the Government and people in Kyrgyzstan and to collaborate closely with the partners to offer policy options and solutions that will help to retain the Country’s development trajectory on the sustainable path. Ozonnia Ojielo informed that the UN is preparing to submit to the Government a set of recommendations to mitigate short and long-term effect of the sanctions imposed on Russia on Kyrgyzstan. UNRC briefly elaborated on some immediate recommendations, including a need for more targeted social assistance, strong measures to mitigate the consequences of potential inflow of returning migrants, while prioritizing innovative governance, the green economy and investments into building the human capital, including through a stronger digital agenda, as accelerators to enable economic transformation and advance the national SDGs progress.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/176607-unrc-calls-government-prioritize-supporting-vulnerable-groups-government%E2%80%99s-anti-crisis-plan




Date: 30 March 2022
Title: Protecting reproductive rights and sexual and reproductive health of women and girls with disabilities
Content: 30 March 2022
Protecting reproductive rights and sexual and reproductive health of women and girls with disabilities

On March 30,  In Bishkek the PIL Research Company with technical support from the UNFPA in Kyrgyzstan and with financial support from the UK government presented the results of study on assessing the needs of women and girls with disabilities in accessing reproductive health services and gender-based violence.
he aim of the study is to assess the needs of women and girls with disabilities in accessing reproductive health services and gender-based violence.
The surveys were conducted within the preparation for the research, where about 300 women with disabilities took part. The target group was represented by women over 18 years of age with four different types of disabilities: vision, hearing, musculoskeletal disorders, and others.
Despite the fact that people with disabilities have the same rights to sexual and reproductive health as people without disabilities, society still continues to challenge this fact, treating women with disabilities in a discriminatory manner.
The study found that the rights and personal dignity of women and girls with disabilities are not recognized at the family and community level. According to the assessment, more than a quarter of survey respondents (26%) cannot decide to go outside of their homes; more than a third of respondents believe that they have no right to decide whether or not to have a romantic, sexual relationship with a person; more than a fifth cannot decide about marriage (23%), about divorce (22%), about their own fertility (have or not have children - 21%).
The results of this study will be integrated into mechanisms of interagency response to gender-based violence and improving access to reproductive health services for women and girls with disabilities.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/177314-protecting-reproductive-rights-and-sexual-and-reproductive-health-women-and-girls




Date: 28 March 2022
Title: Developing the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Kyrgyzstan 2023-27: A Consultation with Civil Society
Content: 28 March 2022
On March 28, 2022, the UN in the Kyrgyz Republic held a consultation with civil society on the development of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Kyrgyzstan for 2023-2027.

The United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework is the main strategic document of the UN System in the Kyrgyz Republic, which will replace the current program (UNDAF) for 2018-2022 signed by the UN and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in 2017.

In her welcoming speech, Nuria Choibaeva, Deputy Head of the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic, noted that this discussion with civil society is of great importance, as it is an important stage in the process of developing the UN’s cooperation framework in the Kyrgyz Republic, which will enter into force in early 2023. “This framework is the most important instrument for planning and implementing UN development activities at the country level and in support of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The development of this program is timely, as it coincided with the development of the National Development Program until 2026, where the government identified the main development priorities for Kyrgyzstan.” Nuria Choibaeva also noted that the framework program has undergone changes in approaches to the UNSDCF development process, including the flexibility of the program with the possibility of annual review and making appropriate changes.
During the consultation, representatives of civil society provided their recommendations within the four priority strategic directions of the five-year program, identified by the joint working group of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN on February 18, 2022.

Four priority areas (draft) for strategic results:
The consultation participants discussed priority areas, proposals and formats for cooperation between the UN system and civil society in the future.
The consultation was attended by 75 people, including representatives of 11 UN agencies and about 50 public organizations working in the fields of education, peacebuilding, environment and climate change, agricultural development, women's rights, migrants and refugees, people with disabilities, youth development, volunteerism, culture, healthcare, interethnic relations and activism.



More photos are here https://flic.kr/s/aHBqjzHwWo&nbsp;
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/176344-developing-united-nations-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework-kyrgyzstan-2023-27




Date: 28 March 2022
Title: Kyrgyzstan: First visit by UN experts on discrimination against women and girls
Content: 28 March 2022
GENEVA (28 March 2022)  ̶  A United Nations expert group on discrimination against women and girls will undertake its first official visit to Kyrgyzstan from 4 to 15 April 2022 to assess progress and challenges in achieving gender equality and eliminating discrimination against women and girls in the country.
“The Working Group is particularly interested in legislative reforms and policies that have been implemented in Kyrgyzstan to promote women’s rights and substantive gender equality and to address structural discrimination”, the experts said.
The experts will be looking at all aspects of women’s life: political and public, economic and social, family and cultural life, health and safety, including gender-based violence against women and girls as a manifestation of discrimination and barriers to access to justice as crosscutting issues.
“We are interested in learning about achievements and promising practices, as well as the local historical and cultural context and existing gaps and challenges in the spirit of engaging in a constructive dialogue”, the experts said.
The experts, who are invited by the Government, will hold meetings in Bishkek, Issyk Kul, and Osh.
They will pay particular attention to women and girls who encounter multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination, including those living in rural areas, migrants, refugees, religious and ethnic minorities, those adversely impacted by conflict, LBTI persons, and women and girls with disabilities.
They will meet with national and local authorities, women and girls, civil society organisations, academics, journalists, elected women leaders, UN entities and other international stakeholders.
The visiting delegation will include Melissa Upreti and Elizabeth Broderick, respectively Chairperson and Member of the Working Group.
The experts will present their preliminary observations at a press conference at 3:00 pm (local time) on Friday 15 April 2022 at the Conference Room of the Sheraton Hotel, 148B Kievskaya Street, Bishkek. Access to the press conference will be strictly limited to accredited journalists.
For media accreditation for the press conference, please contact Nurshat Ababakirov, Communication Officer with the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Bishkek, at 0770 979703 or nurshat.ababakirov1@un.org.
The Working Group will submit its full report to the UN Human Rights Council in June 2023.
ENDS.
The UN Working Group on discrimination against women and girls was created by the Human Rights Council in 2011 to identify, promote and exchange views, in consultation with States and other actors, on good practices related to the elimination of laws that discriminate against women. The Group is also tasked with developing a dialogue with States and other actors on laws that have a discriminatory impact where women are concerned.
The Working Group is composed of five independent experts: Ms Melissa Upreti (Nepal), Chairperson; Ms Dorothy Estrada Tanck (Vice Chair); Ms Elizabeth Broderick (Australia); Ms Ivana Radačić (Croatia); and Ms Meskerem Geset Techane (Ethiopia).
The Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
For further inquiries and media requests, please contact:
wgdawprofessionalteam@ohchr.org
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts, please contact Renato Rosario De Souza (renato.rosariodesouza@un.org) or Jeremy Laurence (+ 41 79 444 7578 / jeremy.laurence@un.org).
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?

Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/177862-kyrgyzstan-first-visit-un-experts-discrimination-against-women-and-girls




Date: 07 March 2022
Title: Call to Promote a Risk-Oriented Approach in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 07 March 2022
Press release on the occasion of the presentation of findings and recommendations on how to strengthen the country systems to manage disaster risk.
At the presentation of the preliminary findings of the diagnosis of country systems to manage disaster risk, on 4 March 2022, the First Deputy Minister of Emergency, Mr. Mambetov, highlighted that the government priority is a gradual shift from civil protection to disaster risk management. Mr. Mambetov further noted that the strengthening of the National Platform for disaster risk reduction and joining the International Search and Rescue Advisory Group (INSARAG) are also important for the country.

The diagnosis of the disaster risk management system at national and local level was supported by the UN system and the CADRI Partnership (Capacity for Disaster Reduction Initiative), an alliance of humanitarian and development partners working to strengthen disaster risk reduction capacities.
The findings and recommendations were the outcome of consultations with 29 national organizations, 13 local organizations, five private sector organizations and four development partners. The consultations involved, amongst others, the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Labor, Social Welfare and Migration. Local authorities were also consulted in Osh, Issyk-Kul and Alamudun districts, to assess the level of capacities to reduce local disaster risk.
The capacity-diagnosis was a joint effort between the government and the UN Country Team. The Ministry of Emergency designated 12 representatives to lead and support the diagnosis process over a two-week period. The diagnosis was supported by a multi-disciplinary team of 11 international experts from UNDP, UNICEF, FAO, UNFPA, UNDAC, and 15 experts from the UN Country Team in the Kyrgyz Republic including FAO, OCHA, UNDP, UNICEF, WFP, UNFPA, WHO.

Mr. Stanislav Kim (UNDP), who led the mission, stressed the importance “to change paradigm from being hazard-oriented to risk-oriented and transfer some of the responsibilities for disaster risk management from the Ministry of Emergency to the sector ministries”. He also emphasized the need to "strengthen coordination of disaster risk management efforts across all levels for increased efficiency".

The preliminary mission findings and recommendations will be presented to the government in April 2022 with the hope that the agreed recommendations will inform the national policy documents and the UN-Government cooperation framework for the next 5 years. Mr. Munawwar Alam, Team Leader in the United Nations Resident Coordinator Office, highlighted that the findings and recommendations from the mission will guide the interventions of the UN Agencies and support the efforts of the government to advance in the Disaster Risk Reduction agenda in the country.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/174293-call-promote-risk-oriented-approach-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 04 March 2022
Title: Ministry of Agriculture and FAO sign Green Climate Fund Project Agreement
Content: 04 March 2022
This agreement is one of the main steps towards the implementation of the project, for which the Green Climate Fund (GCF) allocates grant funds in the amount of 30 million USD to Kyrgyzstan.

The signing ceremony of the agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) on the Green Climate Fund project "Carbon Sequestration through climate investments of forests and pastures in the Kyrgyz Republic (CS-FOR)" was held on 4 March 2022; the project itself was approved at the meeting of the Board of the GCF on November 14, 2019 in Songdo, South Korea.
This agreement is one of the main steps towards the implementation of the project, for which the GCF allocates grant funds in the amount of 30 million US dollars to Kyrgyzstan.
The project itself will be aimed at maintaining the diversification of rural income sources, taking into account climate-oriented approaches in agriculture and forestry.
"Taking into account the growing political attention to forests and the adopted Declaration of the Glasgow Leaders on Forest and Land Use at the 26th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the initiative of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic S.N.Zhaparov on the conservation and development of mountain forest ecosystems, I hope that this project will make a considerable contribution to the implementation of the National Development Program of the Kyrgyz Republic until 2026,"
said Dzhanybekov Askarbek, Minister of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The FAO Sub-regional Coordinator for Central Asia and FAO Representative a.i. in the Kyrgyz Republic, Viorel Gutu, in turn, thanked the Ministry and all partners for the fruitful cooperation and the results that have been achieved so far. "There are still steps to take in order to make this project functional, but I am sure that we will be able to pass them quickly, because this project is really aimed at improving the lives of people in Kyrgyzstan and providing timely assistance for them,” he said.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/174331-ministry-agriculture-and-fao-sign-green-climate-fund-project-agreement




Date: 24 February 2022
Title: Ministry of Labor, Social Security and Migration and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) launch social contract pilot project in two districts of the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 24 February 2022
The Ministry of Labor, Social Security and Migration (MLSSM) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) have launched an innovative pilot project in Kadamjai and Jumgal districts to assist 100 poor families graduate out of poverty. The project will provide a one-time cash grant of 100,000 KGS through the “Social Assistance to Poor Families on the Basis of a Social Contract” pilot project in support of the local populations.

The “Social Contract” is an agreement between low-income families and the Government, whereby vulnerable families receive a cash grant to start income-generating or self-employment activities, combined with a comprehensive support package, including training on financial literacy, assistance to develop business plans, vocational or agricultural training, social services and mentoring to successfully pursue longer-term business and livelihood activities.
The project is targeted at households living below the national poverty line with sound business ideas, seed assets and basic knowledge for proposed businesses, such as livestock breeding, selling dairy products, sewing services, greenhouses and other initiatives.
Where suitable, the social contracts are also implemented in collaboration with local business and entrepreneurs, who create sustainable employment opportunities for targeted low-income beneficiary families.
The pilot will also serve as a learning opportunity to improve the design of the project for further scale-up.
***
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/173177-ministry-labor-social-security-and-migration-and-united-nations-world-food-programme-wfp




Date: 22 February 2022
Title: The CADRI Partnership Initiated a Capacity Diagnosis Mission in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 22 February 2022
A coalition of UN partners supports the Kyrgyz Republic to enhance country systems to manage disaster.

On 21 February 2022, the CADRI capacity diagnosis mission was launched under the auspices of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN Resident Coordinator. The mission will help review country systems to reduce disaster risk.
CADRI (the Capacity for Disaster Reduction Initiative) is an UN-led global partnership that helps countries reduce disaster and climate risks through providing access to a unique pool of multidisciplinary expertise in various socio-economic sectors to achieve the 2030 Agenda and leave no one behind.
The government called upon the CADRI Partnership in 2019 and CADRI Partners, FAO, UNDP, UNDRR and UNICEF, led a scoping process in June 2021 to identify the main requirements for the capacity diagnosis process and the socio-economic sectors most vulnerable to disaster and climate risk.
The CADRI capacity diagnosis mission was launched during the virtual meeting with the UN Resident Coordinator (UNRC), Ozonnia Ojielo, that took place on Monday, February 21st. During the meeting, Mr. Ojielo highlighted the importance of the capacity diagnosis to enhance country systems in the context of multi-dimensional risk and emphasized that the UN Country Team fully supports the process for the benefit of the people of the Kyrgyz Republic.

The two-week capacity diagnosis is supported by a multi-disciplinary team of 11 international experts from UNDP, UNICEF, FAO, UNFPA, UNDAC and the CADRI Secretariat, who will work together with the 15 UN Country Team experts, including FAO, OCHA, UNDP, UNICEF, WFP, UNFPA, WHO. 12 representatives from the Ministry of Emergency Situations (MoES) have been deployed to lead the comprehensive diagnosis. This participatory diagnosis involves key stakeholders from public, private and non-government sectors, as well as development partners. The CADRI team will consider various dimensions of capacities such as risk governance, implementation skills, financing, risk knowledge, and access to technology related to disaster risk management.
The diagnosis covers six sectors prioritized by the government: Agriculture and food security, Environment (with the focus on natural resource management, solid/hazardous waste and industrial accidents), Health, Social protection, Water, Sanitation and Hygiene, Education and Infrastructure such as transport and telecommunications. The team of experts will assess the national and local level situation, and conduct field visits to Osh, Issyk-Kul and Alamudun districts.
The capacity diagnosis will provide a comprehensive overview of the strengths and gaps in the disaster risk management system in the six sectors and help identify actionable recommendations that will be integrated into the national policy documents and development frameworks.

Today, on 22 February, the mission members met the First Deputy Minister of Emergency, Mr. Mambetov. In his opening speech, Mr. Mambetov highlighted the importance of the mission, stating that
“The mission is very important for the country, aspects of the disaster risk management are highly on the governmental agenda. The finding of the mission will be very important to the Ministry of Emergency and to the whole country. This mission will help to identify strong and weak points of the existing system of disaster risk management, and also integrate the climate aspects, that will be a baseline for planning the efforts to be taken by the Government and UN country team and other donors in the coming five years in this direction.”
Mr. Mambetov also confirmed the commitment of the Ministry of Emergency to lead the process of the capacity diagnosis and their further efforts to implement the recommendations that will be identified during the capacity diagnosis.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/172979-cadri-partnership-initiated-capacity-diagnosis-mission-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 22 February 2022
Title: WFP AND WORLD SHARE COME TOGETHER TO IMPROVE SCHOOL FEEDING IN RURAL KYRGYZSTAN
Content: 22 February 2022
BISHKEK – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and World Share, an international NGO from the Republic of Korea, are implementing joint projects to help improve nutrition and food security primary school children.
With technical support from WFP, World Share has provided industrial-standard electric stoves, ovens, refrigerators, and other cooking and kitchen equipment to schools to be used to prepare school meals. In total, five schools in Issyk-Kul, Talas and Osh provinces, with more than 1,250 primary schoolchildren, have received support.
“We strive to provide all primary schoolchildren of the Kyrgyz Republic, especially in remote and economically poor areas, with high-quality hot and diverse meals,” said Ram Saravanamuttu, WFP Country Director a.i. “The partnership with World Share will allow an expansion of the coverage of the school meals programme so that more children can get nutritious meals in schools to enhance their health and development.”
“It is an honor for us to join efforts with WFP and promote the economic development of vulnerable regions for the well-being of rural communities, especially children,” said the country dierector of World Share in the Kyrgyz Republic Kim Young Soo.
The collaboration contributes to the National School Meals Optimization Programme supported by WFP. Launched in 2013, the programme is supported by a wide range of stakeholders, including national and local authorities, communities, and donors. Currently, the programme provides quality, nutritious hot meals to approximately 220,000 elementary school students in more than 800 schools across the Kyrgyz Republic.
#       #       #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Public Charitable Foundation World Share is a non-governmental international organization with representative offices in 30 countries of the world. In the Kyrgyz Republic, the fund opened on October 11, 2017. World Share is headquartered in South Korea and has been philanthropic in many countries for over 10 years. The representative office of the World Share Charitable Foundation in Kyrgyzstan helps children from low-income families, children with disabilities, orphans and children living in foster families.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/172926-wfp-and-world-share-come-together-improve-school-feeding-rural-kyrgyzstan




Date: 03 February 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator offered Speaker of Parliament to Re-Establish UN-Parliament Strategic Dialogue and Discussed Ongoing Partnership
Content: 03 February 2022
On 3 February 2022, UN Resident Coordinator (UNRC), Ozonnia Ojielo, met with Speaker of Jogorku Kenesh, Talant Mamytov, and  discussed the ongoing partnership and potential areas for new cooperation with the new Convocation. Among the participants were UN-Women Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic, Ulziisuren Jamsran, and MP Chingiz Aidarbekov, Member of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense, Security and Migration of Jogorku Kenesh and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

Speaker of Jogorku Kenesh, Talant Mamytov thanked the UN for providing support to Kyrgyzstan in achieving national priorities in line with the SDGs and assured that Kyrgyzstan, which actively participated in preparing and passing the Agenda 2030, will continue to realize its commitments to the internationally agreed development goals  and the principles enshrined in the UN Charter.  The Speaker informed that an action plan for the implementation of the National Development Program, where all SDGs are embedded, is being developed and said he looked forward to engaging with the UN in its implementation.
The Speaker informed that 30% quota for women in the party lists has been respected in accordance with the legislation, with 18 women becoming members of the parliament. The Speaker also provided the total number of women in the Jogorku Kenesh of the Kyrgyz Republic as 156, of whom 89 are experts and 11 are heads of departments of the Office of the Jogorku Kenesh.
The Speaker discussed the need for expanding the powers of the Women's Rights Council under the Toraga of the Jogorku Kenesh, as part of the implementation of the national gender policy and the SDGs, by transforming it into the Council for Children's Rights and Gender Equality and the importance of training programs and seminars for the staff and MPs of the Jogorku Kenesh.
Re-assuring of the Jogorku Kenesh’s commitment to gender equality, the Speaker informed that a comprehensive system of gender-oriented national mechanisms has been formed in Kyrgyzstan, including the Council for the Protection of Women's Rights and the Prevention of Gender-Based  Violence under the Speaker of the Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic, and the Forum of Women MPs, as well as National Council for Gender Development under the Cabinet of Ministers.

UN Resident Coordinator, Ozonnia Ojielo, congratulated the Speaker Talant Mamytov on his re-election as Speaker and MP Chingiz Aidarbekov on his election and his appointment as the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group on SDGs. UNRC also congratulated the Speaker on the  upcoming 30th Anniversary of the Kyrgyz Republic becoming a member of the United Nations (2 March 1992) and noted a long history of successful cooperation that has grown deeper and wider since Kyrgyzstan gained independence. UNRC discussed with the Speaker the reform processes, including importance of Development Finance Assessment (DFA) and an Integrated National Financing Framework (INFF) as well the engagement with civil society in the country.
UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo offered to re-establish a strategic UN-Parliament dialogue which began in 2018 but was suspended amid the COVID-19 crisis. UNRC informed of readiness of the UN agencies to engage in research and capacity building work for the Parliament, under the coordination of UNDP. While discussing Kyrgyzstan’s commitments to international obligations and treaties and their compliance with international legal standards, the UNRC and the Speaker spoke about the UN’s support to the legal inventory process in the country. A list of 89 laws was highlighted by the UN which included laws pertaining to all key human rights and political issues relevant to the UN System’s mandate. The importance of these laws for the UN System is determined by their potential impact on the level of democracy in Kyrgyz Republic. 36 experts were contracted by the UN to work under the coordination with the Ministry of Justice.
UNRC shared that one of the most important tasks of the UN is to support the rights of children and programs to prevent domestic violence and offered support in organizing dialogues with women with special needs, including with women living with HIV, are disabled, and from minority groups. UNRC welcomed the decision of the Speaker to transform the current Council on Women's Rights into the Council on Children's Rights and Gender Equality. He emphasized that the Parliament’s role in overseeing the requirement for a gender quota among public authorities is crucial to the achievement and advancement of one-third  women in the public service.
UNRC also highlighted that Kyrgyzstan became the first country to officially end statelessness in 2019 (as part of the #IBelong campaign to end statelessness worldwide by 2024) and discussed the human rights commitments made by Kyrgyzstan in the fall of 2019 in Geneva to introduce the procedures for determining statelessness status and joining the protocol of the UN convention on statelessness.
UNRC and the Speaker also discussed potential institutionalization of the Movement for Better Nutrition Multi-Stakeholder Platform (SUN MSP), a platform consisting of 5 networks - government, academia, business, civil society, UN/donors, with UNRC offering support in re-launching the Movement for Better Nutrition Parliamentary Network.
They also discussed the ongoing partnership with the Council for Migration, Compatriots and Foreign Diasporas under the Speaker of the Jogorku Kenesh. The UN provided technical support to the Council in developing legislative initiatives related to the Global Compact for Migration (GCM).  The UN plans to hold joint dialogues and consultations with the Council and other stakeholders on the development of a national voluntary report on the implementation of the GCM to be presented at the International Migration Review Forum (IMRF) in May 2022.



UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/171070-un-resident-coordinator-offered-speaker-parliament-re-establish-un-parliament-strategic




Date: 03 February 2022
Title: EU-WHO programme bolsters COVID-19 response in Kyrgyzstan: strengthening national laboratories
Content: 03 February 2022
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan – Since the start of the pandemic, the EU-WHO programme launched in 2020 trained national epidemiologists, laboratory workers and public health specialists involved in COVID-19 testing. They were upskilled by WHO international experts on PCR, SNP assay, antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic and ELISA tests toward COVID-19.

In the framework of the Programme, the WHO developed a comprehensive training for all public health workers involved in the COVID-19 testing across the country. Online and practical on-site training sessions were organised with SARS-CoV-2 biomaterials, including collection, transportation, processing and preparation of samples. The materials help laboratory workers successfully detect, characterise and track COVID-19 transmission.
In addition, the EU-WHO programme assessed 13 national health facilities across the country with a focus on Quality Management System, Biosafety and Biosecurity, health facilities’ waste management capabilities.
“The spread of COVID-19 has put our national laboratories in Kyrgyzstan to the test. Good laboratory practices, quality control and accurate results are essential in the laboratory testing process, which is a crucial part of our response to COVID-19,” said Alymkadyr Beishenaliev during a joint visit to the Republican Center for Quarantine and Particularly Dangerous Infections. He thanked the WHO and EU Delegation in the Kyrgyz Republic for their continuous technical support and recommendations to scale up national laboratory capacities.
EU Ambassador Eduard Auer stressed, “Testing is critical to control the transmission of the COVID-19 virus effectively. No one is safe until we are all safe, and the EU will continue supporting the Kyrgyz health system and providing vaccines through the global COVAX mechanism. Europeans and Kyrgyz are together in overcoming this global pandemic."
“WHO, in its turn, will continue providing further support to Kyrgyzstan to strengthen emergency preparedness in the field of health care and implementation of international health regulations, which will help the country to respond effectively during emergencies,” highlighted Nazira Artykova, WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan.

Programme information:
Central Asia COVID-19 Crisis Response Programme (CACCR) is a joint effort of the European Union (EU) and WHO Regional Office for Europe, focusing on Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan. A 2-year, €3 million regional project to help prevent, detect and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, and increase country capacities to respond to similar public health threats. It aims to strengthen countries’ public health emergency preparedness, coordination, detection and response; and build the resilience of national health systems. The project is implemented by the WHO Regional Office for Europe and WHO country offices, in close coordination with EU Delegations, national authorities and development partners.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/170876-eu-who-programme-bolsters-covid-19-response-kyrgyzstan-strengthening-national-laboratories




Date: 18 January 2022
Title: What Works Central Asian Forum Kicks Off in Bishkek
Content: 18 January 2022
On January 18, Bishkek hosted a Central Asian Forum called “What Works in Development?”, organized by International Alert and UN Women. Representatives of international organizations, the private sector, civil society, media, government agencies, and experts discussed the experience of preventing sexual and gender-based violence, empowering women, and the role of personal growth in development.

“There is a causal relationship between personal growth, domestic violence, especially against women and girls, and development in society. Accordingly, we discussed what really works in solving these problems through personal growth,” emphasized Shakirat Toktosunova, representative of International Alert in Kyrgyzstan.

The Forum concluded a series of events where partners shared their knowledge and experience and are open to applying others' experiences to accelerate results in advancing women's rights, girls' rights, and gender equality. The main discussion focused on how these themes could help prevent gender-based violence and further unify the society in Kyrgyzstan.

“Preventing gender-based violence, empowering women, and ensuring their personal growth are important areas for establishing gender equality in society. These are the topics that we discussed and shared our experience on at the forum,” said Ulziysuren Jamsran, UN Women Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
Among the participants were representatives of ministries, well-known entrepreneurs, activists, and experts who shared approaches that work in the region based on their own experience. Historians, theologians, and academics also spoke on the issue of ensuring social cohesion.

The forum is organized by the independent international organization for peacebuilding and conflict prevention "International Alert", which has been operating in the Kyrgyz Republic since 2010, as well as the UN Women in Kyrgyzstan, whose activities are dedicated to the fight for gender equality and the empowerment of women.
For more information, please contact:
PHOTOS from the event.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/168995-what-works-central-asian-forum-kicks-bishkek




Date: 23 December 2021
Title: UNHCR strengthens cooperation with the Ministry of Labor to improve the asylum system in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 23 December 2021
On 23 December 2021, UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, handed over computer and office equipment in the amount of KGS 1,560,832 to the Migration Department of the Ministry of Labor, Social Security and Migration of the Kyrgyz Republic for employees of the territorial divisions of Osh and Batken regions as part of the ongoing cooperation to improve the asylum system and ensure protection of the rights of refugees and asylum seekers in the Kyrgyz Republic. In 2021, these territorial divisions were tasked to provide support for refugees.
“UNHCR remains committed to work with the Cabinet of Ministers of Kyrgyzstan to protect and assist those forced to flee in line with the humanitarian principles. Principles, which the pandemic has only highlighted, and which are at the heart of the Global Compact on Refugees: a spirit of solidarity to work together, share responsibilities, and ensure that people forced to flee are included in national responses. We remain available to seek solutions – together – in a spirit of collaboration and constructive partnership”, said Hans Friedrich Schodder, UNHCR Representative for Central Asia.
"We highly appreciate the assistance provided by UNHCR to the territorial divisions of the Ministry and note that it will be another contribution to further strengthening of international cooperation in solving refugee problems. UNHCR has always been and will remain a strategic partner of the Ministry in protecting the rights of refugees," said Kudaibergen Bazarbaev, the Minister of Labour, Social Protection and Migration of the Kyrgyz Republic.
In 2020, UNHCR also handed over computer and office equipment to the Migration Department of the Ministry of Labor, Social Security and Migration of the Kyrgyz Republic in the amount of KGS 1,077,043 to strengthen its technical capacity.
As of November 2021, 324 refugees and 633 asylum seekers live in the Kyrgyz Republic. UNHCR will continue to support government agencies and other partners to ensure protection and access to the rights of refugees and asylum seekers.
CONTACTS FOR MORE INFORMATION: (0312) 621315
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/166894-unhcr-strengthens-cooperation-ministry-labor-improve-asylum-system-kyrgyzstan




Date: 22 December 2021
Title: World AIDS Day marked in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 22 December 2021
The national campaign for the World AIDS Day 2021 started on 26 October and ended on 5 December 2021.
In Kyrgyzstan the overall message of the campaign was “Your Health - Your Rights - Your Responsibility”.

“This year we talked not only about health, but also about people’s rights and their responsibility for their health. We all know that everyone has the right to health, while exercising of this right is up to us. We want everyone to take care and bear responsibility for their health. Today HIV infection is not a court sentence. Modern and effective treatment is available in the country. However, in order to timely identify the HIV status, one needs to be tested. Rapid saliva testing for HIV is widely available at all health facilities. If you want to know your HIV status, you just need to make this test,” explained Mr. Aibek Bekbolotov, deputy director of Republican AIDS Center.
The Republican AIDS Center campaign was supported by the national partners and the UN agencies in the Kyrgyz Republic. Rapid HIV testing was organized at the “Frunze” hypermarket chain and over 400 people were tested for HIV. Informational and educational materials were produced, lectures were held at educational institutions in the country as well as contests for journalists and medical bloggers; seminars in Bishkek and Osh for religious leaders were also arranged.

A press conference was held on 1 December in the popular “People Talks” format, where UNAIDS Goodwill Ambassador Mr. Erkin Ryskulbekov, TV presenter Ms. Aizada Zhamgyrchieva, Honored Artist of Kyrgyzstan Ms. Shayyr Kasymalieva and actor Mr. Alinur Abdykalykov told stories of people living with HIV. During the event 200 people were able to get HIV tests.

On 3 December, actor Mr. Jenish Mayrambek uulu met volunteers of youth organizations that work to promote sexual and reproductive health. Young people raised the issues of Internet bullying, sexual education for youth and talked about the involvement of popular and famous people in HIV prevention and treatment programs.
As of November 1, 2021, 1,106 cases of HIV infection are registered in Kyrgyzstan (cumulative). During the first 11 months of this year, 665 new cases of HIV were detected. During 9 months of 2021 more than 400 thousand people were tested for HIV in Kyrgyzstan, sexual transmission rate made 81.3%.
According to Ms. Meerim Sarybaeva, the UNAIDS Country Director in Kyrgyzstan, “Stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV and communities at high risk of HIV infection play a negative role in responding to HIV infection. Citizens are afraid to be tested, people living with HIV do not want to visit health facilities. Now it is important for us to show that testing is even more accessible and that HIV is a chronic disease that can be successfully controlled and treated”.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/166250-world-aids-day-marked-kyrgyzstan




Date: 16 December 2021
Title: UNHCR Donates Additional Prefabricated Housing Units to the Red Crescent Society of the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 16 December 2021
The National Office of the UN Refugee Agency, UNHCR, donated 48 new prefabricated refugee housing units (RHUs) worth 6,275,286 Kyrgyz som to the Red Crescent Society of the Kyrgyz Republic.


Made through the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU), this donation adds to 72 RHUs worth of 7,447,000 Kyrgyz som which UNHCR had donated to the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic two years ago and to replace 60 UNHCR RHUs worth 6,273,000 Kyrgyz som, which the Red Crescent Society of the Kyrgyz Republic had used to temporarily accommodate citizens, whose houses had been damaged or destroyed in April in Batken.
“UNHCR, as a member of the DRCU, reiterates its commitment to the Government and people of the Kyrgyz Republic to support enhanced cooperation and coordination for disaster preparedness and response,” said Asel Sharsheeva, Head of the UNHCR National Office in Kyrgyzstan.
The DRCU brings together donor community, Government counterparts, international and local NGOs, Kyrgyzstan Red Crescent, and the UN Country Team to ensure a coherent emergency preparedness and response in the Kyrgyz Republic.
RHUs are used by UNHCR and its partners as semi-permanent emergency shelters all over the world. Each RHU can easily be erected in a few hours.
The RHUs will be utilized by the Red Crescent Society in case of disaster and emergency situations in the Kyrgyz Republic. Beyond their primary use as emergency shelter, RHUs can be used as temporary first aid centres, accommodation for field personnel, education centres or storage.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/165764-unhcr-donates-additional-prefabricated-housing-units-red-crescent-society-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 13 December 2021
Title: Community Projects Across Kyrgyz Republic will Continue into 2022 Thanks to Generous Russian Federation Contribution to WFP
Content: 13 December 2021
Bishkek– - The new consignment of wheatflour donated by the Russian Federation to the World Food Programme (WFP) arrived in the Kyrgyz Republic on Friday, guaranteeing support to communities across the country for projects that will help rehabilitate vital infrastructure, mitigate climate change shocks, and provide hot meals in schools for children into 2022.
Some 1,430 metric tons of Russian-grown fortified flour are now heading to WFP warehouses in Bishkek and Osh. The wheat-flour will be distributed to approximately 40,000 families to improve their food security and nutrition and 78,000 children through the national school meals programme.  On hand to welcome the arrival of the food were the Russian Ambassador Mr Nikolay Udovichenko, the Minister of Labour Social Security and Mingration, Mr Kudaibergen Bazarbaev, and the Head of WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic, Michael Huggins.
Each family will receive 150 kg of fortified wheat flour and 15 litres of vegetable oil in return for their participation in one of more than 500 community projects aimed at rehabilitating local infrastructure and building community resilience against disaster risk and climate change shocks. The projects include repair of irrigational networks and drinking water systems; tree planting and riverbank reinforcement for risk mitigation; construction of village bridges and drainage systems; capacity strengthening trainings to develop livelihoods and best farming practices.
These projects will not only enhance infrastructure in remote communities and strengthen their capacity to mitigate disasters in areas vulnerable to natural hazards and climatic risks, but also will improve their employment and self-employment prospects.
The Russian Federation is the largest donor to WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic. During the past 10 years, the Government of Russia – through WFP – has supported citizens of the Kyrgyz Republic at various levels, from emergency relief and recovery to development and social protection.
Thanks to the assistance of the Russian Federation, WFP has been able to support the national response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
#                                              #                                              #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/164933-community-projects-across-kyrgyz-republic-will-continue-2022-thanks-generous-russian




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: 16 Days Campaign: Cabinet Deputy Chair Baisalov: Whoever raises a hand against a woman will deal with the entire state and with all the force of the law
Content: 25 November 2021
Today, 25 November, the Global 16-day Campaign of Activism against Gender-based Violence kicked off around the world. Deputy Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic Edil Baisalov officially launched the campaign with a slogan “Do not be afraid. Stop the violence. Live.” together with women leaders in Batken. In his live address through the Public TV and Radio Company, Mr. Edil Baysalov reiterated the Government's commitment to end violence against women and girls.



The campaign goes for 16 days each year, beginning on 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and ending on 10 December, the Human Rights Day.
In his address the Deputy Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers Edil Baisalov stated:
“The main purpose of the campaign is to increase public intolerance for domestic and gender-based violence, to raise public awareness through measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women and children, to educate the public, to draw public attention to this problem.
In the first 10 months of 2021, 9,378 cases of domestic violence against women were registered, which is 955 cases or 4.3 percent higher than the same period in 2020, when 8,989 cases were registered.
8,322 temporary protection orders were issued to victims of domestic violence: 7,807 for women, 278 for men, and 237 for minors.
Since the independence of the Kyrgyz Republic, several national programs have been approved aimed at creating the basis for the institutionalization of equal rights, the elimination of gender inequality, and the socio-economic and socio-political development of women.
An appropriate normative and legal framework has been created and key laws have been adopted to ensure equal rights and opportunities for men and women. In terms of protection against domestic violence, our country was one of the first in the CIS to adopt a law on social and legal protection. However, the increase in the number of cases of domestic and gender-based violence from year to year shows that the work being done in this area is not enough.
In our country today, more than 50% of the total population are women. No country in the world can develop, if the potential of half of its population is not used, and they are left behind, and their rights are violated.
We must create conditions to channel the opportunities, knowledge and strength of women in Kyrgyzstan towards the country’s socio-economic and socio-political development.
Our girls and women living in rural areas are the source of strength and inspiration of our country, as they make a significant contribution to the agrarian, social and economic development of the regions where they live.
We must acknowledge the fact that domestic violence is no longer a private matter. This is evidenced by the above data on the number of appeals to the law enforcement bodies, data from courts and health institutions, studies by the National Statistical Committee.
Our task is to convey to every citizen that domestic violence, violence against women, violence against children is unacceptable.
This is a watershed moment for our country to make the legislative base more modern and introduce an effective systemic mechanism for ending domestic violence, bringing the perpetrators to justice, so that each of our citizens, in the village or in the city, so that we know that a woman’s rights are inviolable, that whoever raises a hand against women will deal with the entire state and with all the force of the law.
I want to emphasize once again that the effective implementation of our policy in this regard, the elimination of violence in our country depends on the well-coordinated work of all state bodies, but also of all our citizens, in the family, in the city, in the village, on every street. We all need to take an active part in this.
The state will pay attention to this issue not just in words. The current Cabinet of Ministers has already announced a threefold increase in funding for shelters. Previously, seven million soms were allocated for this purpose, and now we have decided to increase this threefold, as well as allocate an additional five million soms for a broad public campaign throughout the country, ”said Edil Baisalov.
He also thanked the international partners, UN agencies and the Spotlight Initiative, for their support and stressed that the issues of violence against women is a matter of society and the government, local authorities, self-government bodies of the Kyrgyz Republic and that it will be addressed at all levels of government.
All photos are in this album.



UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/160396-16-days-campaign-cabinet-deputy-chair-baisalov-whoever-raises-hand-against-woman-will-deal




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: The UN System in the Kyrgyz Republic joined the United Nations Secretary-General's campaign “Together to End Violence against Women by 2030” in support of the civil society initiative "16 days of activism against gender-based violence"
Content: 25 November 2021


The UN system in the Kyrgyz Republic welcomes the efforts of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in public launching of the 16 days campaign under the slogan “Don’t be Afraid, Stop the Violence, Live” from Batken jointly with women from Batken oblast communities, thus demonstrating its commitments in eliminating violence against women and girls and ensuring full and comprehensive protection of women and children. The UN System in Kyrgyz Republic joined the United Nations Secretary-General's campaign Nations “Together to End Violence against Women by 2030” in support of the civil society initiative "16 days of activism against gender-based violence".
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/160430-un-system-kyrgyz-republic-joined-united-nations-secretary-generals-campaign-%E2%80%9Ctogether-end




Date: 24 November 2021
Title: UN Resident Coordinator and Manas University Dean discuss university community’s role in achieving SDGs in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 24 November 2021

On November 24, 2021, UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo hosted a meeting with the Kyrgyz-Turkish Manas University, represented by Prof. Dr. Serhat Burgmaoglu, Dean, Advisor to the Rector and Dr. Azamat Maksudunov, Technology Transfer Office Coordinator. The delegation expressed university’s plan to integrate the Sustainable Development Goals into its teaching, research and operations. Prof. Burgmaoglu briefed on several initiatives for students and staff to increase awareness on the SDGs and to elaborate innovative solutions to some of the development challenges, notably around SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). The overall goal of these initiatives is to help the university community translate sustainable development in Kyrgyzstan from goals to action. The UN RC emphasized the importance of research and its application to development challenges in the country, as well as the importance for multi-stakeholder cooperation between academia, government, private sectors and international organisations. The parties agreed to continue cooperation in the future by bringing together the UN’s and the University’s expertise on the most pressing national development challenges for the socioeconomic development of the country.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/160705-un-resident-coordinator-and-manas-university-dean-discuss-university-community%E2%80%99s-role




Date: 23 November 2021
Title: WFP launching E-wallet digital solution to help the Kyrgyz Government respond to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 23 November 2021
BISHKEK - The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in the Kyrgyz Republic has launched a digital E-wallet solution as part of its nation-wide cash-based transfer (CBT) programme that supports vulnerable households in urban and peri-urban areas. The initiative was made possible with generous funding from the Government of Switzerland.
The pilot project is being rolled out in four cities of Kyrgyzstan: Tokmok, Kara-Balta, Osh and Jalal-Abad, with a planned expansion to cover 23 cities and towns. In total, US$ 146,000 will be distributed among 1,460 vulnerable families (US$ 100 per family) for their participation in various community development projects, such as rehabilitation of local infrastructure or skills trainings to help improve their job prospects. Priority will be given to households living below the national poverty line, single female-headed households, large families with minors, and households with people with disabilities.
Digital solutions, such as E-wallet, offer better security, tracking, and improved efficiency, transparency, accountability for humanitarian organizations. It provides choice and dignity, enabling vulnerable people to access a range of digital services and choose how to spend the assistance they receive. In addition, the initiative will enhance the financial literacy of the people WFP supports, as they will be trained to use new digital tools and payment methods.
“Thanks to the generous contribution from the Government of Switzerland, WFP is able to use mobile money services to support families in meeting their basic needs. Compared with the traditional ‘cash-over-counter’ method, E-wallet is an innovative tool that provides families with not only wider, better services but also the freedom to decide how they would like to spend the cash they receive,” says WFP Interim Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic Michael Huggins.
WFP’s programme is designed to address the root causes of food insecurity and malnutrition through improving the safety nets for the poorest during emergency situations. In 2020, the Government of Switzerland allocated US$ 2.5 million toward WFP’s COVID-19 response project for families affected by socio-economic shocks, which have pushed more people into poverty and unemployment. Conditional cash assistance – equivalent to the cost of 150 kg of wheat flour and 15 litres of vegetable oil per participant.

***
The Government of Switzerland provides assistance for the development of the Kyrgyz Republic. Since 1994, Switzerland has granted more than CHF 450 million to Kyrgyzstan in the form of technical, financial and humanitarian support.  For more information, please visit https://www.eda.admin.ch/bishkek.
Follow us on www.facebook.com/SwissEmbassyKyrgyzstan

The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/159815-wfp-launching-e-wallet-digital-solution-help-kyrgyz-government-respond-impact-covid-19




Date: 15 November 2021
Title: The Minister of Labor, Social Welfare and Migration discussed UN Peacebuilding programmes with the UN Resident Coordinator
Content: 15 November 2021
Bishkek, 15 November – UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo met with the Minister Kudaibergen Bazarbaev. The meeting participants discussed priority programmes to be implemented in partnership with the UN Peacebuilding Fund.
The Resident Coordinator informed the Minister about the development of projects, that will likely be funded by the UN Peacebuilding Fund in the coming years. UN will continue working with the Government for developing civic identity, enhancing the trust between different social groups, and between the citizens and the state. The meeting participants discussed separately the planned initiatives for improving economic and social wellbeing of communities in the border areas of Kyrgyzstan. Minister Bazarbaev, among others, informed Mr. Ojielo about the work of the Ministry as well about the preparation of the action plan for the Concept of Person’s Spiritual and Moral Development and Physical Training.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/159094-minister-labor-social-welfare-and-migration-discussed-un-peacebuilding-programmes-un




Date: 12 November 2021
Title: COVID-19 SOCIO-ECONOMIC SHOCKS POSING SERIOUS THREAT TO FOOD AND NUTRITION SECURITY OF THE PEOPLE OF THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Content: 12 November 2021
BISHKEK – The COVID-19 pandemic has posed serious threats to food security and nutrition of the poorest people in the Kyrgyz Republic, particularly those living in urban areas, according to a new study released by the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) together with National Statistical Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic (NSC).

Poverty, Food Security and Nutrition Analysis in the context of COVID-19 and the role of Social Protection in the Kyrgyz Republic draws upon data from across the country gathered before and after the pandemic struck. The comparisons show that drops in income have not only reduced demand for food, but also induced shifts in the mix of products consumed, with families eating less nutrient-rich foods, like fruits, vegetables, and animal-sourced foods, and more calorie rich-foods, like bread and sugar.
A profound economic crisis caused by the pandemic has resulted in an increase in newly poor and unemployed people in the Kyrgys Republic. In order to cope, families reported applying different coping strategies that have impacted negatively on their nutrition, health and productivity, and will be difficult to reverse in the future, perpetuating the cycle of poverty and vulnerability.
In addition to ’stress’ coping strategies (e.g. borrowing money to meet food needs), more households had to apply ‘crisis’ and ‘emergency’ type strategies, such as selling assets, reducing spending on essential non-food items, selling property, and asking for humanitarian assistance. The number of households resorting to these coping strategies increased from 12 percent in 2020 to 36 percent in 2021. This translates into a reduced ability to deal with future shocks, reduction of current and future productivity, and the jeopardizing of future livelihoods.
“This important analysis demonstrates the alarming effects of the pandemic on the population’s food and nutrition security, and how food insecurity and malnutrition are closely linked to poverty,” said Michael Huggins, WFP Kyrgyz Republic Officer-in-Charge. “Critical measures need to be taken now to strengthen the government’s approach to social protection to help the families, and the country, fully recover from the socio-economic fallout of COVID-19.”
Some of the recommendations include focusing on income-generating activities and poverty graduation programmes to build people’s resilience; fostering inter-sectoral linkages between social protection and food systems; promoting healthy and diverse diets among the population; and strengthening the design of social benefits to make sure that “no one is left behind.”
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change. Follow WFP on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific and @WFPinKG.
English version of the report
Russian version of the report
For more information please contact:
Almaz Tchoroev, WFP Communications Officer: 0550 577 597 (mobile) or 312 660033 (ext. 2600)
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/158799-covid-19-socio-economic-shocks-posing-serious-threat-food-and-nutrition-security-people




Date: 11 November 2021
Title: Healthy and Tasty: School Cooks show off their skills with WFP support
Content: 11 November 2021
BISHKEK –The Best Cook of School Meals in the Kyrgyz Republic 2021 will be declared on Thursday when finalists meet in Bishkek for the Grand Final Cook-Off after almost eight months of intense competition.
The competition started with cooks from 57 schools around the country in March, and through multiple rounds of demonstrating their culinary skills, just five remain. The competition has been supported by the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), the Ministry of Education and Science, and the Social Industrial Foodservice Institute (SIFI).
All school cafeterias with the desire to participate in the competition sent stories on how they became professional cooks. The second stage involved a panel of judges choosing the best stories of the journeys to become professional cooks. The best 35 cooks were selected to develop a nutritious recipe for a new dish to feed school children meals. The five most creative recipes will be put to the culinary taste bids of a panel of judges on November 11.
This competition is organized to celebrate the hard work of School Cooks, who will demonstrate their skills in developing, preparing, and serving hot school meals, as well as raise awareness to the public on the importance of good nutrition for children who are the future of the country.
The creativity of nutritious and tasty recipes cooked in school canteens, together with the support of parents, helps to foster a culture of healthy diet within school communities. Indeed, according to the recent study conducted by WFP in partnership with the National Statistics Committee, malnutrition continues to be one of the main contributors to the health burden of the Kyrgyz Republic.
“School is more than just a place to learn, it is a pillar of the future community, and providing dietary diverse hot meals in schools provides an opportunity for students to thrive and grow into healthy productive adults who in turn will be better placed to build a stronger community,” said Michael Huggins, WFP Kyrgyz Republic Interim Country Director. “Hence, the creativity and hard work of school cooks are the foundation for a better and more vibrant tomorrow.”
The Cook’s competition serves as an important aspect of National School Meals Optimization Programme, which currently provides high-quality nutritious meals to around 220,000 primary school children in more than 800 schools across the country.
“School meals support children in their education and improves their health to make sure that the benefits of this National Programme are felt beyond the school. We are gathered here today to thank the cooks and celebrate their excellent work“- said the representative of the Ministry of Education and Science.
Since 2013, with financial support from the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic, in partnership with WFP and SIFI, has been realizing a Programme to improve nutrition in schools. The National School Meals Optimization Programme is a widely recognized initiative, which has been receiving support from national and local authorities, communities and donors.
********
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on Facebook @WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/ and Instagram @wfp_kyrgyzstan

For more information please contact:
Almaz Tchoroev, WFP/Bishkek, Email: almaz.tchoroev@wfp.org, Tel: +993 312 660033, Mobile: +996 555 850 175
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/158275-healthy-and-tasty-school-cooks-show-their-skills-wfp-support




Date: 17 October 2021
Title: The celebration of World Food Day in Osh: “Our actions - are our future”
Content: 17 October 2021
On October 16, in honour of the celebration of World Food Day in the city of Osh, an agricultural fair was held on Alymbek Datka square, where organic products of local farmers were presented to the public.

During the agricultural fair, Osh city residents were given the opportunity to buy local produce and the opportunity to speak to a qualified expert on nutritious and healthy diets, which will help ordinary citizens understand how a food basket should look like.
“Even before COVID-19 shone a spotlight on the vulnerability of the world’s agri-food systems, hundreds of millions of people worldwide were afflicted by hunger - and that number has increased in the last year up to 811 million. Despite the world producing sufficient food to feed all of us. This is unimaginable and unacceptable”, - said Adnan Quereshi, FAO Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic. “At the same time, 14 percent of the food we produce is lost, and 17 percent is wasted. Combine this with other stressors — such as pests and diseases, natural disasters, loss of biodiversity and habitat destruction, and conflict — and you can see the magnitude of the challenge we face in meeting the world’s growing food needs, while simultaneously reducing the environmental and climate impact of our agri-food systems”.

The World Food Day raised public awareness on issues of food security and nutrition. UN agencies, together with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, have joined forces to organize a fair to not only support smallholder farmers, but also expand the horizons of agricultural production. This event in Osh united farmers from all regions of the country, including men, women and young producers, demonstrating that agriculture continues to be the main sector of employment for Kyrgyz citizens, without gender stereotypes.  Hence, draw the attention of the public on the transition to efficient, inclusive and sustainable agri-food systems.

“The World Food Programme, as the world’s largest humanitarian organization and the Nobel Peace Prize winner in 2020, has worked tirelessly together with the Government and partners to build a pathway to stability, prosperity, development and mitigate the impact of economic and social shocks caused by issues such as climate change or the Covid-19 pandemic. We don’t just deliver food, WFP enables the changes needed to ensure that no one is left behind in meeting their food needs. Our actions – are your future”, -said Michael Huggins, the WFP Interim Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic.

World Food Day, celebrated annually on October 16, was proclaimed in 1979 as a necessary measure to inform the population of the world's food problems that require immediate solutions. The countries around world had recognized the need to eradicate hunger from the planet and create conditions for the development of sustainable agriculture, which would be able to feed the world's population, as one of the most important tasks.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/152333-celebration-world-food-day-osh-%E2%80%9Cour-actions-are-our-future%E2%80%9D




Date: 14 October 2021
Title: UNICEF launches the Situation Analysis of the Children and Adolescents with Disabilities in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 14 October 2021
The Government of the  Kyrgyz Republic and UNICEF is launching the Situation Analysis of Children and Adolescents with Disabilities in Kyrgyzstan to support the country’s efforts to implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD).
The launch will be held online and offline for representatives of the government and development partners, civil society organizations working with children with disabilities, children with disabilities, parents of children with disabilities, and the private sector.
The analysis identified barriers to providing quality and inclusive services for children and adolescents with disabilities and challenges at the policymaking and implementation level. The report includes evidence and recommendations to the Government, development partners, and civil society to develop appropriate policies, focusing on capacity building and inclusive service delivery.
“The contributions of children with disabilities and their families to the study are testament to families and children’s tenacity, and parents unconditional love for their children, despite barriers they face. The study points us to critical action that need to be taken, so children with disabilities can realize their potential as active members of society,” stated Christine Jaulmes at the launch of the report.
The researchers recommend investing in further developing an Early Identification and Early Intervention mechanism, strengthening inclusive education and the de-institutionalization of children with disabilities from residential institutions. Social norms and harmful practices in treating children with disabilities should be addressed to ensure that the rights of children with disabilities are met through a system-wide approach to disability and inclusion.
The Situation Analysis provides evidence and guidance for future policy formulation and service provision to the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. It also informs civil society organizations and international development partners to focus their efforts on supporting the Government in fulfilling the rights of children and adolescents with disabilities.
Full report is available here.
For more information, please contact:
UNICEF, Mavluda Dzhaparova, 0777919142, mdzhaparova@unicef.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/151997-unicef-launches-situation-analysis-children-and-adolescents-disabilities-kyrgyzstan




Date: 12 October 2021
Title: UN Discuss UNDAF Evaluation Report with Stakeholders
Content: 12 October 2021
On 12 October 2021, the UN system in the Kyrgyz Republic held a UNDAF Evaluation Validation meeting, which was attended by the government, international partner and civil society representatives. The purpose of the meeting was to present the initial results of the assessment of the 2018-2022 UNDAF implementation by the UN in the Kyrgyz Republic.
In his welcome remarks, UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo stated that the report was prepared by consultants to ensure integrity and independence of the assessment and would be available publicly once finalized. He noted that the report provides lessons learnt for the UNCT, as the development becomes more complex, with multiplied challenges, requiring the UN to respond in different ways. He added that the report helped the UNCT learn about the perspectives of its stakeholders on the effectiveness and procedures of the UN and its collective actions with its partners.

UNRC stressed that in the context of UN Development System Reform, the UN accountability has increased not only to the Government but also to non-state actors, civil society, community groups, private sector, trade union movements. He said, “We need to hear you views more to better learn the challenges you face and how well we are doing and involve you more in how we monitor and track the implementation of our programs and increase your sense of ownership of the program. It does not just belong to the UN system; it belongs to the government and people of the Kyrgyz Republic. We are your instruments for helping you realize your national development ambitions.”
Daniyar Imanaliev, Deputy Minister of Economy and Finance, in his remarks thanked the UN for the critical assistance during the pandemic as well as significant recommendations provided to the recently endorsed National mid-term development program until 2026. The Deputy Minister called for strengthening coordination and abridged collaboration considering the increasing development challenges, with a focus on results and transparency of data as well as the assistance opportunities that the UN brings.

In her speech, Aisuluu Amanova, the Ministry of Economy and Finance official, noting the ministry’s coordination role for the country programs and UNDAF, informed that in 2020 the Government submitted the Voluntary National Review of the SDG progress, identifying areas that require more assistance from stakeholders, including the development partners, private sector and civil society. She shared the Ministry’s plans for closer engagement with stakeholders, embedding SDG indicators in local managements, and joining regional SDG tracker platforms.
Representatives of civil society organizations spoke about importance of further strengthening the capacities of NGOs, including in monitoring the progress of SDGs; called for more attention to the needs of women in the COVID-19 context, which adversely affected the small and medium business where many women are employed; stressed the need for formalizing the shadow economy, especially the textile sector.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/152914-un-discuss-undaf-evaluation-report-stakeholders




Date: 23 September 2021
Title: The International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction 2021
Content: 23 September 2021
The United Nations General Assembly has designated October 13th as the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction to promote a global culture of disaster risk reduction. It is an opportunity to acknowledge the progress being made toward reducing disaster risk and losses in lives, livelihoods and health in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 adopted at the Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Japan in March 2015.
In 2016, the UN Secretary-General launched “The Sendai Seven Campaign” to promote each of the seven targets over seven years. The 2021 target is Target F: “Substantially enhance international cooperation to developing countries through adequate and sustainable support to complement their national actions for implementation of the present Framework by 2030”.
In keeping with the Day’s focus on the impact that disasters have on people’s lives and well-being, this year’s theme is about highlighting best practices and examples of international cooperation, which have a positive impact on the lives of people who live in disaster-prone parts of the world i.e. reducing the numbers of people affected by man-made and natural hazards including extreme weather events, epidemics and pandemics, and earthquakes, environmental catastrophe and technological disasters.
In dedication of the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction, UNDRR announces an Online Video Contest & a DRR Questionnaire, which will contribute to raise greater awareness about disaster risk reduction. Participants should submit their best answers following the link https://forms.office.com/r/ECwCKmBjdY
Everyone has an opportunity to show their talent and contribute to the safety of their community by raising awareness on disaster risk reduction by submitting their work. Please read below the terms and condition of the Contest.
Format
• In the Videos participants should complete the phrase –
Disaster Risk Reduction is __________________________________________
Then, say the following phrase #OnlyTogether…We can save the Planet -
• All videos must be one-minute maximum of running time
Eligibility requirements:
Anyone with creativity skills is eligible to enter the contest.
Technical specifications for submission:
All materials should be submitted electronically to zamirbek.berdigulov@un.org . Participants are responsible to ensure the quality of the submitted material. Any entries deemed offensive will be immediately disqualified.
The submitted material must be an original creation - no copyrighted images may be used.
The participant must certify and warrant that the submitted material does not violate the rights of a third party or any copyright. UNDRR is not responsible for intellectual property violations that might have resulted through the submissions.
Judging and notification of selected participants:
The Contest closes at 23:59 pm on October 10, 2021 (Ashgabat time), qualifying materials will be judged on adherence to the Contest theme through its message clarity, composition, and overall presentation. UNDRR will appoint a jury to judge the entries.
The selected entry will be announced on October 13, 2021 and the winner will be notified by e-mail.
Rights and ownership:
By submitting their works to UNDRR, participants agree to grant UNDRR free of charge the right to use the submitted work in any manner and media, including without limitation, the right to publish, adapt, distribute, copy, display or translate in printed or electronic media even if they are not the winning entries.
Award:
The selected candidate will receive UNDRR Certificate, will be invited to events dedicated to disaster risk reduction in UN House and the winners’ work will be used for UNDRR materials as mentioned above.
For more information, please contact:
Mr. Zamirbek Berdigulov
National Technical Officer
zamirbek.berdigulov@un.org
Tel: (996) 775975522
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR)
c/o UNICEF
UN House, 160 Chui Avenue, Bishkek, 720000, Kyrgyz Republic
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/145676-international-day-disaster-risk-reduction-2021




Date: 22 September 2021
Title: The UN Refugee Agency supports the prevention of statelessness in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 22 September 2021
Today, 22 September, the Representative of UNHCR for Central Asia, Hans Friedrich Schodder, met the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic - Minister of Digital Development (MDD) Dastan Dogoev, Director of the Department of Population Registration and Civil Status Acts under the MDD Eliza Esenalieva and human rights lawyer, winner of the prestigious Nansen Award Azizbek Ashurov.

In 2019, Mr. Ashurov with direct assistance of the Department of Population Registration and Civil Status Acts under the MDD had won the international Nansen Award for supporting the efforts of the Kyrgyz Republic in becoming the first country in the world to resolve all known cases of statelessness. The award, bestowed annually to honour individuals and organisations that protect forcefully displaced and stateless people, includes a commemorative medal and a project funding, generously donated by the governments of Switzerland and Norway.
Today, Mr Ashurov opened a training centre on nationality as part of the project implemented with his Nansen Award prize. In cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Development of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Centre will provide capacity building and education for state services, lawyers, and law students to ensure the training and skill sharing on the issues of nationality, statelessness and migration.

On the same day, UNHCR handed over technical equipment at the value of 22,000 USD to the Ministry of Digital Developments of the Kyrgyz Republic, which assumed responsibilities for citizenship and statelessness issues.
“Kyrgyzstan demonstrated its commitment to protect the fundamental right to a nationality by resolving all known cases of statelessness on its territory. This year when we mark the 60th anniversary of the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness is a good occasion to reflect on the importance of this treaty for preventing statelessness, and we are ready to offer our advice and support to the Kyrgyz Republic on becoming party to the two UN Statelessness Conventions,” said Mr. Hans Friedrich Schodder at the event.
With the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic - Minister of Digital Development D. Dogoev and Director of the Department of Population Registration and Civil Status Acts E. Esenalieva Mr Schodder discussed the support of UNHCR and its partners to the Kyrgyz Republic to implement its four pledges made at the High-Level Segment on Statelessness in Geneva in 2019 to prevent re-occurrence of statelessness in the country and accede to the Statelessness Conventions.

UNHCR continues to support the Kyrgyz Republic in playing an important positive role in the Global #IBelong Campaign to End Statelessness by 2024.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/145487-un-refugee-agency-supports-prevention-statelessness-kyrgyzstan




Date: 14 September 2021
Title: Steering Committee Members of UNIDO Global Quality and Standards Programme in Kyrgyzstan discussed the further steps in the project implementation
Content: 14 September 2021
On 10 September 2021, the 2nd meeting of the Project Steering Committee of the UNIDO Global Quality and Standards Programme (GQSP) project in Kyrgyzstan "Strengthening quality and standards compliance capacity of the fruits value chain to facilitate market access" brought together its members from the Ministry of the Economy and Finance in the Kyrgyz Republic (MoEF), the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) and United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) to discuss the interim progress of the project and further plan of actions. The meeting was conducted virtually via zoom video conference call and hosted by the MoEF.
The meeting was opened and chaired by Eldar Alisherov, the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. He welcomed the ongoing project efforts to reach its objective - to underpin Kyrgyzstan's export capacities and competitiveness by enhancing the quality and standards compliance capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) along the Issyk-Kul oblast fruits value chain to facilitate their access to the external markets. He expressed hope that the efficiency and benefits of the project will be felt by the local SMEs, striving for the external markets such as the European Single Market.
In his opening remarks Silvan Hungerbuehler, SECO representative, said: "The Swiss Government believes that the project will achieve success and looks forward to strengthening further cooperation with MoEF and UNIDO in the area of Quality Infrastructure".
Tursunai Usubalieva, UNIDO National Institutional Liaison Officer, presented key project achievements since December 2020. UNIDO identified the needs and capacities of relevant state-owned testing and calibration laboratories as well as SMEs, as involved in the Fruits value chains.
She also highlighted that UNIDO launched its Technical assistance programme (TAP) for the purpose of the capacity building of small and medium-sized enterprises in complying with international standards of the Food safety management system as per standards of ISO 22000:2018. The first batch of four export-oriented SMEs in Bishkek, Chui and Issyk-Kul oblasts were selected on a competitive basis and have already joined the TAP.
Since the project aims to enhance awareness about quality, a number of activities are ongoing, including the revamp of the Center for Standardization and Metrology website under the MoEF and promotion of the UNIDO LabNet platform Kyrgyzstan.
About the Global Quality and Standards Programme
The Global Quality and Standards Programme (GQSP) is a global initiative developed to assist more than 10 countries worldwide, including Kyrgyzstan, to boost their competitiveness in selected value chains. Through an innovative approach developed by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the Government of Switzerland - through its State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO), GQSP identifies quality-related challenges and makes targeted interventions at every single stage of the value chain, thereby increasing compliance with international market requirements and ultimately helping countries to engage in global trade.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/144221-steering-committee-members-unido-global-quality-and-standards-programme-kyrgyzstan-discussed




Date: 23 August 2021
Title: Importance of Consultations in the Legal Inventory of the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 23 August 2021
The United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic acknowledges vital importance of the comprehensive inventory of legislation launched under the auspices of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Justice of the Kyrgyz Republic, outlined in the Presidential Decree of the Kyrgyz Republic of 8 February 2021. We take note of its objectives to achieve necessary alignment with the new Constitution, and other guiding criteria. In particular, UN system welcomes the intention of the legal inventory process to ensure that national legislation ensures respect, protection and fulfilment of human rights in line with the ratified UN human rights treaties.
The UN further acknowledges the commitment of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic at the outset to ensuring transparency and effective public participation during the inventory process, and notes that such requirements can be met by allowing the ample time and creating enabling space for meaningful dialogue with interested stakeholders.
In accordance with the country’s aspirations and the voluntary, legally binding international commitments it has entered into, the Kyrgyz Republic can also be expected to retain or develop laws that promote all aspects of inclusive and sustainable development.  The legal inventory process offers a unique possibility to integrate mechanisms consistent with the Sustainable Development Goals and take stock of the outstanding recommendations of the UN human rights mechanisms and develop amendments to the existing legal framework in order to implement these recommendations.
The UN currently supports the legal inventory process by bringing experts to help the government implement international norms and standards with a focus on human rights and the rule of law, on inclusive economic development, and by offering resources for effective consultations with the public.
The UN takes particular note of an administrative decision to speed up the review of laws as described in the Ministers’ Cabinet Decision from 21 June  2021 no. 48 and encourages the government to safeguard the principles of good governance, social justice, participation and inclusiveness by not sacrificing these to short term expediency.
We trust that the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic will adhere to its initial commitment to allocate time for comprehensive consultations with all relevant stakeholders at all phases of this process. Considering the magnitude of the exercise and the culmination of a review of the country’s near-entire legal framework, the people of the Kyrgyz Republic deserve to participate effectively and meaningfully in all stages of the inventory process.
A constructive dialogue between presidential and government authorities with civil society, including the business community and in openness to the media and general public, is crucial to ensure a transparent, inclusive and accountable process and to further build consensus in critical areas for improving the laws of the Kyrgyz Republic in order to bring them in line with international obligations, including under the ratified human rights treaties.
In view of prior substantial investments to strengthen laws that protect women’s rights, civil and political rights as well as social, economic and cultural rights, the importance of transparent justification for eliminating any law is essential before making conclusive selections based on the results of the legislative review.
It will also be important to allow sufficient time to eliminate such fragmentation, ambiguity, and overlaps that the inventory was designed to address, while using the opportunity to further reinforce human rights and fundamental freedoms in national legislation.
The UN stands ready to further support the Kyrgyz Republic in assuring that the inventory of legislation will contribute to the country’s implementation of the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development, upholding and further advancing the respect, protection and fulfilment of human rights for all people in Kyrgyzstan.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/142508-importance-consultations-legal-inventory-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 19 August 2021
Title: UNIDO Global Quality and Standards Programme supported the capacity building for laboratories involved in the Issyk-Kul fruit value chain
Content: 19 August 2021
19 August 2021, Kara-Oi village, Issyk-Kul region, Kyrgyzstan - On August 16-18, 2021, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) conducted training on “International standard GOST ISO/IEC 17025-2019 General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories. Practice of implementation” for personnel of laboratories in Bishkek, Chui and Issyk-Kul regions. This event was initiated within the framework of a joint project of UNIDO and the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic “Strengthening quality and standards compliance capacity of the fruits value chain to facilitate market access” with financial support from the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO).
The three-day training was attended by laboratory specialists of the Center for Standardization and Metrology under the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Department of Disease Prevention and State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance, the Central Toxicological Laboratory of the Department of Plant Protection Chemicalization of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Kyrgyz Republic, as well as laboratory specialists of enterprises involved in the processing of fruits of the Issyk-Kul region. The training programme focused on improving the competence of laboratories in the ability to obtain reliable results, take actions to manage risks and opportunities, and create the basis for improving the effectiveness of the management system.
The training was provided by Atyrkul  Momukulova, Head of the laboratory department of the Kyrgyz Accreditation Center under the Ministry of Economy and Finances of the Kyrgyz Republic. The KCA developed and implemented new policies and procedures to help laboratories meet accreditation requirements.
The head of the sanitary and hygienic laboratory of the Karakol Interdistrict Center for Disease Prevention of the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Supervision, Zharkyn Tabaldieva, informed that her laboratory had been recently accredited for compliance with GOST ISO/IEC 17025-2019 "General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories" by the KCA. For the effective functioning of the laboratory quality management system, she stressed out  the importance of systematic training of laboratory personnel.
Training participants were also introduced to UNIDO's LabNet, an online platform of the global laboratory network, by joining which laboratories can disseminate information about calibration, testing and certification services and undergo additional trainings. Barakanov Asylbek, head of the sector for ensuring the uniformity of measurements of the Center for Testing, Standardization and Metrology of Cholpon-Ata, shared that the training would help his centre in the planned preparation of their laboratory for mass and temperature calibration for accreditation following GOST ISO/IEC 17025-2019.
The operation of physico-chemical laboratories in production facilities similarly requires permanent improvement of competence level. Representative of LLC "Agroholding Sazanovsky" Makarenko Zhamilya, said that her company is at the stage of implementation of requirements of GOST ISO/IEC 17025-2019 and GOST ISO/IEC 17020-2012, the successful completion of which will improve the quality of products and access to new export markets.
Such trainings for laboratories under the UNIDO project “Strengthening quality and standards compliance capacity of the fruits value chain to facilitate market access ” are aimed to strengthen their capacity to validate compliance with international markets, ultimately helping to facilitate access to Issyk-Kul fruits and products of their processing to global markets.
For more information:
Makmal Abylova, UNIDO Communications Expert, (312) 900545 (office), +996 773 700 344, email: gqsp-kyrgyzstan@unido.org
Follow our page on Twitter.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/140631-unido-global-quality-and-standards-programme-supported-capacity-building-laboratories




Date: 12 July 2021
Title: Russian Federation helps World Food Programme to support poor families in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 12 July 2021
OSH, Kyrgyzstan – The Russian Federation is providing a new batch of in-kind contributions to the World Food Programme (WFP) in Kyrgyzstan, in support of its operations for poor families in need of food assistance.
Some 945 tons of Russian-made fortified flour are now heading to WFP warehouses in Osh. They will be used as part of food rations for more than 31,500 vulnerable families living below the poverty in the country.
Each family will be given 150 kg of fortified wheat flour and 15 litres of vegetable oil to meet their basic food needs while they are participating in more than 500 community projects aimed at improving infrastructure and building resilience against future shocks. Some of the projects include rehabilitating irrigation networks and cropland, forest expansion, and construction of bridges and drainage systems.
The Russian Federation is the largest donor to WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic, in both funding and technical support. During the past 10 years, the Government of Russia – through WFP – has supported citizens of Kyrgyzstan at various levels, from emergency relief and recovery to development and social protection.
Thanks to its support, WFP was able to sustain its operations since the start of COVID-19. And the support is especially critical now as Kyrgyz families cope with the social-economic crisis brought by the pandemic.
#                                              #                                              #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/135581-russian-federation-helps-world-food-programme-support-poor-families-kyrgyzstan




Date: 25 June 2021
Title: Russian Federation helps World Food Programme to support poor families in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 25 June 2021
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan – The Russian Federation is providing a new batch of in-kind contributions to the World Food Programme (WFP) in Kyrgyzstan, in support of its operations for poor families in need of food assistance.
Some 365 tons of Russian-made fortified vegetable oil are now heading to WFP warehouses in Bishkek and Osh. They will be used as part of food rations for more than 27,000 families living below the poverty in the country.
Each family will be  given 150 kg of fortified wheat flour and 15 litres of vegetable oil to meet their basic food needs while they are participating in more than 500 community projects aimded at improving infrastructure and building resilience against future shocks. Some of the projects include rehabilitating irrigation networks and cropland, forest expansion, and construction of bridges and drainage systems.
The Russian Federation is the largest donor to WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic, in both funding and technical support. During the past 10 years, the Government of Russia – through WFP – has supported citizens of Kyrgyzstan at various levels,  from emergency relief and recovery to development and social protection.
Thanks to its support, WFP was able to sustain its operations since the start of COVID-19. And the support is especially critical now as Kyrgyz families cope with the social-economic crisis brought by the pandemic.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/133091-russian-federation-helps-world-food-programme-support-poor-families-kyrgyzstan




Date: 24 June 2021
Title: Small and medium-sized enterprises of Issyk-Kul region fruit sector strengthen their knowledge on creating food safety management systems
Content: 24 June 2021
24 June 2021, Chok-Tal village, Issyk-Kul region, Kyrgyzstan - On June 22-24, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) conducted training on Food Safety Management Systems for fruit processors involved in the development of fruit value chains in the Issyk-Kul region. The seminar's content was prepared for enterprise heads, quality managers and food technologists.
The training was initiated within the framework of a joint project between UNIDO and the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic "Strengthening quality and standards compliance capacity of the fruits value chain to facilitate market access" with financial support from the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs. The project is part of UNIDO's Global Quality and Standards Program, which aims to strengthen the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in quality and adherence to priority production chain standards to support the export competitiveness of developing partner countries. In Kyrgyzstan, the implementation of the project is planned until November 2022.
During the training, the participants learned the basics of food safety and the conditions for implementing international food safety management systems, including standards based on HACCP principles (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points). Sania Koptseva, trainer and leading consultant on food safety management systems, noted that the successful implementation of food safety management systems will allow Kyrgyz enterprises to reap a number of benefits, including the creation of a documentary base confirming the production of safe food products, the opportunity of certification of the company's management system in compliance with international standards, entering new foreign markets, increasing the level of consumer confidence in products and increasing the company's competitiveness.
"Ensuring food safety is critical not only for improving health and food security but also for the country's economic development," said Aida Duvanaeva, leading specialist of Compliance Assessment Systems and Halal Industry Regulation Department, Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Asylbek Akhmedsharipov, head of the regional development department of the Office of the Plenipotentiary Representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic in the Issyk-Kul region, emphasized the importance of promoting the competitiveness of export-oriented fruit crops of the Issyk-Kul region. Implementation of the UNIDO's initiative will also ensure the prevention of potential threats to minimize the risk of failure due to non-compliance with technical regulations and control measures.
"Quality management system implementation will improve the management system for all production processes," noted Aydar Zhumaliev, food technologist at Kyrgyzcentrproduct LCC. "Our company is preparing to undergo ISO 22000: 2018 certification. For this purpose, we have developed schemes for the interaction of processes and created a performance assessment system. I am confident that this will increase the competitiveness of the products, stability in the market and the efficiency of the company's business as a whole," he added.
Tursunai Usubalieva, UNIDO National Institutional Liaison Officer, spoke about the priorities and main directions of the Global Quality and Standards Programme in Kyrgyzstan for the period up to 2022. Today, quality and food safety are the key factors in competitiveness in the global food market, she said. The UNIDO program aims to support enterprises in Bishkek, Chui and Issyk-Kul regions to process fruits and berries of the Issyk-Kul region, intending access to external markets.
Compliance with international standards, guidelines and recommendations for safe and guaranteed quality food is a prerequisite for conducting international trade. The project activities aim to build the capacity of beneficiary enterprises and improve their knowledge and skills to comply with the requirements of international standards at all stages of the value chain of target and export-oriented fruit products.
For more details:
Makmal Abylova, UNIDO GQSP Communications Expert, (312) 900545 (office), +996 773 700 344, email: gqsp-kyrgyzstan@unido.org
Follow our page on Twitter.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/133015-small-and-medium-sized-enterprises-issyk-kul-region-fruit-sector-strengthen-their-knowledge




Date: 23 June 2021
Title: 1,800 acacia trees to be planted in Osh province by WFP, Japanese partners - DM Solutions and IBS Association Cooperative
Content: 23 June 2021
Osh, Kyrgyzstan – On 15 June 2021, the World Food Programme and DM Solutions, IBS Association Cooperative and the Osh Forestry Department will plant acacia trees in Kyzyl-Tuu village in Osh province to improve the soil quality and increase the environmental and economic sustainability of the region, while improving food security and nutrition of local population. As a sustainable agroforestry resource, acacia trees can provide many benefits to farmers, as they nourish the soil by fixing nitrogen levels and restoring fertility. The project is committed to planting 1,800 acacia trees by November 2021.
On 15 June 2021, the World Food Programme and DM Solutions, IBS Association Cooperative and the Osh Forestry Department will plant acacia trees in Kyzyl-Tuu village in Osh province to improve the soil quality and increase the environmental and economic sustainability of the region, while improving food security and nutrition of local population. As a sustainable agroforestry resource, acacia trees can provide many benefits to farmers, as they nourish the soil by fixing nitrogen levels and restoring fertility. The project is committed to planting 1,800 acacia trees by November 2021.
In the Kyrgyz Republic, the agricultural sector contributes significantly to the national GDP, export revenues and employment opportunities. At the same time, agricultural and forestry landscapes in the region face considerable degradation. Integrating acacia trees into agricultural landscapes by means of agroforestry systems can result in significant environmental and social benefits. Local populations as well as the national government are increasingly aware of their potential to reduce pressure on natural forest exploitation, rehabilitate degraded lands, improve soil quality, stabilize incomes and enable healthy diets.
In addition to tree planting activities, the partnership will source expertise from the Kyrgyz-Japan Friendship Foundation that will provide a series of training workshops on forestry management, acacia cultivation and beekeeping. Project participants will receive five hectares of forestry land from the Osh Forestry Department to cultivate hay for livestock, produce honey and for other agricultural uses. They will receive this land for five years under a no-fee leasing agreement with the possibility of extension. Acacia seedlings and construction materials for the fencing of this land will be provided by DM Solutions and the IBS Association Cooperative.
These strategies will create opportunities for income-generating activities and ensure the sustainability of project results for the residents of the region who largely depend on agricultural production for their livelihoods. Project participants will also be able to improve their households’ economic and social situations while being provided with food rations from WFP for the execution of project works and their participation in training workshops.
In terms of environmental protection, the results of the project will strengthen forests, soil development processes and climate change adaptation measures to address the issue of land degradation and create prevention measures against possible floods and landslides.
“WFP’s work in the Kyrgyz Republic focuses on the creation of sustainable income sources for the poor and vulnerable people and communities,” said Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Representative and Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic. “This initiative will contribute to sustainable food security and nutrition among the poorest and most food insecure groups by developing their agricultural skills and providing them with tools to manage risks such as natural disasters and climate change thus improving their resilience”.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/132804-1800-acacia-trees-be-planted-osh-province-wfp-japanese-partners-dm-solutions-and-ibs




Date: 20 June 2021
Title: On World Refugee Day, UNHCR promotes the inclusion of refugees in health, education and sport in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 20 June 2021
On 20 June World Refugee Day UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, encourages further efforts of the Kyrgyz Republic to include refugees in health systems, education and sport and through this to support their integration into the local communities.

As of the end of 2020 the Kyrgyz Republic hosted 684 refugees and asylum seekers. Many but not all of them yet have access to medical care, including COVID-19 vaccination, education and work. UNHCR will continue supporting authorities and other partners to achieve a better inclusion of all refugees in healthcare, education, employment and social protection to enable them to fully contribute to the development of their host communities.
“In 2021, we mark World Refugee Day amid a continuing pandemic, which has put a strain on health care, schools and our communities. But the pandemic has also taught us that we are stronger when we stand together. Given the chance to study and work, refugees will continue to contribute to a stronger, safer and more vibrant world,” said Hans Friedrich Schodder, UNHCR Representative for Central Asia.
Despite the pandemic, the number of people fleeing wars, violence, persecution and human rights violations in 2020 rose to nearly 82.4 million people, according to UNHCR’s latest annual Global Trends report released on 18 June. This is a further four per cent increase on top of the already record-high 79.5 million at the end of 2019.
World Refugee Day is an opportunity to acknowledge the experiences of the millions of people forced to flee violence and persecution. But it is also a day to celebrate the fact that, with help from welcoming communities and kind neighbours, people can find the strength to heal, rebuild and even thrive.
This year, World Refugee Day is focused on the power of inclusion in health systems, education and sports. Health care because of importance of working together to recover from the pandemic. Education because of the millions of children whose education was interrupted by the pandemic. And sports because it transcends language and nationality to bring people together. In 2021, a team of 29 refugee athletes will join the Tokyo Games with the support of UNHCR and the International Olympic and Paralympic Committees.

Contact information:
Zhypariza Zhumagazieva
UNHCR National Office in the Kyrgyz Republic
Email: zhumagaz@unhcr.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/132327-world-refugee-day-unhcr-promotes-inclusion-refugees-health-education-and-sport-kyrgyzstan




Date: 18 June 2021
Title: Kyrgyz Academia hosted a conference in preparation for for the 2021 Food Systems Summit
Content: 18 June 2021
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan  - On June 18, 2021. the scientific and practical conference on the topic of "Food and Biological Security in the Kyrgyz Republic: Challenges and Prospects for Building Resilience to External Impacts, Shocks and Stresses" took place. It was attended by academia, scientists, government bodies and UN agencies. The event is organised by Kyrgyz National Agrarian University with the support from UN system in Kyrgyz Republic.

The scientific conference is held within the framework of independent national dialogues, which are platforms where, with the help of stakeholders, a proposal is made for Kyrgyz Republic to create food systems more effective, efficient and human centered. A food system innovative which makes a good use of the most advances technology.

The Food systems in the Kyrgyz Republic, as everywhere in the world, is challenged by many theats like natural disasters also caused by the climate change, biological threats, natural disasters, misuse of natural resources, diseases and pests of crops and animals, and economic crisis.

The scientific and practical conference aims to increase the scientific awareness of graduate students, professors, and doctorates about the consequences caused by COVID-19 which together with health crysis had serious impact on country’s food security.
This independent dialogue brought together the country's leading universities and research institutes, which train qualified scientific personnel for almost all parts of the production system. Stakeholders held an open discussion, shared their scientific and professional experience in building and operating food systems, proposed for discussion ways to build a more sustainable food system in the Kyrgyz Republic, as well as opportunities for their implementation.

For Information
On World Food Day, October 16, 2019, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for a Food Systems Summit in 2021. The summit was announced following discussions with the leadership of three Rome-based UN agencies: the Food and Agriculture Organization, the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the World Food Program at the High-Level Political Forum in July 2019.
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
For more information:
Aichurek Zhunusova, Communications officer for WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic, 0550 940 416, Aichurek.zhunusova@wfp.org
Nurshat Ababakirov, Communications Coordinator for UN Agencies in the Kyrgyz Republic, 0770939399, nurshat.ababakirov1@un.org

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/132338-kyrgyz-academia-hosted-conference-preparation-2021-food-systems-summit




Date: 15 June 2021
Title: КЫРГЫЗСТАН СФОРМУЛИРУЕТ СВОЮ ПОЗИЦИЮ  ПО ПРОДОВОЛЬСТВЕННЫМ СИСТЕМАМ ДЛЯ ПРЕДСТОЯЩЕГО САММИТА ООН
Content: 15 June 2021
В Оше начался первый этап обсуждений
В Оше 15 июня 2021г. стартовало первое мероприятие – национальный диалог – по обсуждению вопросов улучшения продовольственных систем. В нем принимают участие представители агробизнеса, органов государственной власти, общественных организаций.

Национальные диалоги являются площадками, где с помощью заинтересованных сторон будет выработана позиция Кыргызской Республики по трансформации продовольственных систем с целью создания новых подходов в производстве продуктов питания и использовании технологий, которые бы обеспечивали экономический, социальный и экологический баланс в стране и мире. Общее видение будет представлено в сентябре текущего года в Нью-Йорке на Саммите ООН по продовольственным системам.
Всего в Кыргызстане будет проведено шесть национальных диалогов, среди них региональные в Оше и Бишкеке на тему «Устойчивые системы Кыргызской Республики: через внедрение инновационных решений, зеленой экономики и адаптации к изменению климата», академический - «Продовольственная и биологическая безопасность в Кыргызской Республике: Проблемы и перспективы повышения устойчивости к внешним воздействиям, шокам и стрессам», диалоги с бизнесом и молодежью, и завершающий - высокого уровня.
Мероприятия пройдут под эгидой Министерства сельского, водного хозяйства и развития регионов при поддержке ООН в КР.

Заместитель министра сельского, водного хозяйства и развития регионов, национальный координатор проведения диалогов в КР Азамат Мукашев: «С помощью национальных диалогов Кыргызстан намерен провести работу по оценке ключевых аспектов АПК, синтезировать идеи и инициативы участников рынка и сформировать единую позицию по преобразованию продовольственных систем. Очевидно, скрытые потери от несовершенной работы продовольственных систем обходятся очень дорого и являются причиной несправедливой организации общества, порождают множество мировых проблем в экологии и экономике, в том числе в обеспечении продовольственной безопасности. Кыргызский агропромышленный комплекс готов содействовать в обеспечении продовольственной безопасности страны, адаптироваться к климатическим изменениям и внедрять новые технологии, взамен заслуженно ожидает от государства прозрачные и прогнозируемые условия работы, доступ к финансам, защиту прав собственности».
В Кыргызстане была принята Программа продовольственной безопасности и питания на 2019-2023 годы и ее ключевыми направлениями являются обеспечение доступности продовольствия и статуса питания населения, повышение безопасности продуктов питания, формирование эффективной системы управления, мониторинга и оценки Программы. Первым действием в реализации Программы явилось создание Многосекторальной платформы по продовольственной безопасности и питанию при Кабинете министров КР. Вовлекая госорганы, международных партнеров по развитию, бизнес-структуры, научные круги и неправительственные организации, данная Платформа будет содействовать мобилизации внутренних и внешних ресурсов для решения проблем продовольственной безопасности и питания, и созданию единой политики в этой области.
Одной из характеристик продовольственной системы Кыргызской Республике является низкий уровень развития пищевой отрасли: только 20% произведенной сельхозпродукции перерабатывается внутри страны, а большая часть вывозится в другие страны в свежем виде. Министерство сельского, водного хозяйства и развития регионов намерено вести работу в увеличении доли переработки до 70%, создавая цепочки добавленной стоимости, ведущие к повышению уровня продовольственной безопасности.
Социальным фактором отмечается то, что большая часть населения не может позволить качественное питание из-за своей слабой покупательной способности. В настоящее время расходы семей на питание оцениваются ниже установленных минимальных нормативов.
Проводимые национальные диалоги в преддверии Саммита ООН по продовольственным системам – еще один шаг в поиске актуальных решений проблем как в мировом масштабе, так и вызовов, стоящих перед страной.

Справка:
Саммит по продовольственным системам был инициирован Генеральным секретарем ООН Антониу Гутерришем в прошлом году после обсуждений с руководством трех учреждений ООН - Продовольственной и сельскохозяйственной организации (ФАО), Международного фонда сельскохозяйственного развития (ИФАД) и Всемирной продовольственной программы (ВПП) - с целью преобразования продовольственных систем, идущих в связи такими с мировыми проблемами как голод, изменение климата и бедность, а также обеспечения прогресса в достижении 17 Целей устойчивого развития.
Это глобальное мероприятие пройдет в сентябре 2021 года в Нью-Йорке с участием стран - членов ООН и будет олицетворять старт новым действиям, направленным на изменение методов производства и потребления продовольствия в мире.
______________________________________________________________________________________
Контакты:
Искак Анарбеков, сотрудник пресс-секретариата Министерства сельского, водного хозяйства и развития регионов КР, 0 555 34 60 60, minselhozpress@mail.ru
Ирена Байтанаева, специалист по коммуникации Отдела реализации сельскохозяйственных проектов, 0701023659, ibaitanaeva@gmail.com
Нуршат Абабакиров, координатор по связям с общественностью и коммуникациям агентств ООН в Кыргызской Республике, 0770939399, nurshat.ababakirov1@un.org

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/131528-%D0%BA%D1%8B%D1%80%D0%B3%D1%8B%D0%B7%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%BD-%D1%81%D1%84%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BC%D1%83%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%80%D1%83%D0%B5%D1%82-%D1%81%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%8E-%D0%BF%D0%BE%D0%B7%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%B8%D1%8E-%D0%BF%D0%BE-%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D0%BB%D1%8C%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%BD%D1%8B%D0%BC-%D1%81%D0%B8%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B5%D0%BC%D0%B0%D0%BC-%D0%B4%D0%BB%D1%8F-%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%81%D1%82%D0%BE%D1%8F%D1%89%D0%B5%D0%B3%D0%BE-%D1%81%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%BC%D0%B8%D1%82%D0%B0




Date: 11 June 2021
Title: The Future of Development is Digital
Content: 11 June 2021
On the International Day of Family Remittances, Renate Held, IOM Regional Director for Southeastern Europe, Eastern Europe and Central Asia, and Simone Giger, Head of SDC’s Global Programme for Migration and Development, look at how the financial sector can contribute to an equitable recovery.
“Luck would not have happened without misfortune’s help.”
This traditional saying could eventually prove a true outcome for the plight of migrant workers and their families during the COVID-19 pandemic.
As borders slammed shut and migrant-dependent industries wound down, the extensive labour migration networks across Central Asia and the Russian Federation evaporated. This sucked countless millions of dollars out of economies that rely on remittances for up to 30 per cent of their GDP.
Migration isn’t just an option in this part of the world: it’s a necessity. The Russian Federation relies on the ten million migrants it hosts to fill jobs at all skill levels. Many Central Asian countries count on labour migration both as an employment strategy, and as a key contributor to their socioeconomic development through the transfer of remittances. These reduce poverty rates in the region by over five percentage points and benefit the poorest regions the most.
During COVID-19, remittances dried up just when they were needed most. Remittances in the Europe and Central Asia region fell by almost ten per cent in 2020, compared to only 2.4 per cent globally.
New research published by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) reveals that two out of every three Central Asian migrants surveyed in the Russian Federation were negatively impacted by COVID-19. Fully 77 per cent stated they had to either reduce or stop sending remittances altogether, with women migrants being the worst impacted.
COVID shockwaves necessitated an immediate and robust humanitarian response. IOM and SDC reacted with direct support to over 3,000 stranded and returned migrants and their family members, and have worked to ensure that these groups have access to safe and reliable money transfer mechanisms.
Dedicated advocacy efforts were needed to raise awareness about the importance of remittances as a crucial lifeline for millions of households worldwide as well as for economies of low- and middle-income countries. Switzerland and the United Kingdom, joined by the IOM and others, launched the global Call to Action “Remittances in Crisis: How to Keep Them Flowing”, urging governments and industry to protect remittances during lockdown.
While the potential of remittances to lift people out of poverty has been known for a long time, the past year has shown just how important they are as a safety net for households and economies. The COVID-19 crisis accentuated a crucial question: What can be done to reinforce the key role of remittances as a tool for resilience and as a catalyst for development?
Today, International Day of Family Remittances, is the perfect time to address that question.
During our research, when we asked migrants who had returned to their countries of origin about their regrets, the overwhelming response we received was: “I wish I had managed my money better and saved more”.
The digital revolution offers great opportunities to use remittances as a gateway towards financial inclusion, and thus towards achievement of the sustainable development goals (SDGs).
Almost 61 per cent of Central Asian migrants who replied to our survey in the Russian Federation already use digital platforms to send remittances home. However, the vast majority of recipients in Central Asia still receive cash, either through money transfer operators or banks. This often excludes them from other services such as financial literacy programmes, insurance programmes, or savings accounts.
Digital identity cards and financial services can help address this by making sending and receiving money easier, and the infrastructure needed for this to flourish is largely in place. Four out of five Central Asian migrants interviewed in the Russian Federation have a smartphone and access to internet, and own bank cards.
But there are behavioral challenges to overcome, as recipients need to feel comfortable using new services. Our research showed that only 29 per cent of people in the region who could receive remittances digitally, actually did so. This is a significant gap that needs to be bridged.
Crucial allies in this will be the banks and other financial institutions, who will have to grow to understand the needs and circumstances of migrants and their families in order to develop appropriate products and services. During lockdown, IOM and SDC started to build these alliances, working with Central and commercial banks.
IOM and SDC believe that financial ecosystems must be improved for the benefit of migrants, their families, and their communities, so that remittances can work more effectively towards creating sustainable livelihoods.
Through this engagement, we are optimistic that we can use the crisis as an opportunity to promote and further the inclusion of migrants and their families in the digital revolution and turn their current misfortune into eventual luck.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/131029-future-development-digital




Date: 27 May 2021
Title: Number of women in Kyrgyz local councils is increasing
Content: 27 May 2021
27 May 2021, Bishkek – The results of women's participation in local council elections and increased representation of women deputies in local keneshes throughout Kyrgyzstan were championed at the roundtable in Bishkek today. It was discussed during the round table "Women deputies: strong local self-government" that was held today, 27 May 2021 with the participation of the Central Elections Commission (CEC) of the Kyrgyz Republic, United Nations Development Programme, UN Women and OSCE Program Office in Bishkek, several women MPs as well as women deputies of the local keneshes from the regions of the Kyrgyzstan.
Women deputies’ proportion in local keneshes have increased up to 36% or almost four times as a result of the 2021 local council elections, according to Nurzhan Shaildabekova, Chairperson of the CEC of the Kyrgyz Republic: "The past elections to local councils renewed the whole structure of local self-government by 90%. Kyrgyz people are waiting for a qualitative change in local government and I am convinced that women deputies will bring stability and a huge contribution to the solution of many problems of local communities. As a result of the elections in April 2021, the number of women in local keneshes saw an increase of four times. This is a political victory for our women!".
In her speech Mrs. Louise Chamberlain, UNDP Kyrgyzstan Resident Representative emphasized: “The increase in women elected to ayil keneshes to 36 % is an achievement for the whole country. Women’s equal political participation is the basis for democracy, sound development outcomes and achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Today we rejoice in the increase of women’s participation and winning the trust of their constituencies. Beyond any stereotypes or political divisions, the people of Kyrgyzstan voted for women as their leaders of the future.”
The round table also summed up the results of the "School of Women's Political Leadership'' training, which were held throughout the country with the support of the OSCE Programme Office in Bishkek, as well as cooperation of CEC and UNDP to conduct an innovative raising awareness campaign through informational meetings on the reform and its potential, encouraging female candidates to run for offices and local authorities to create commendable conditions for such participation, as well as strengthening capacity of the female candidates to campaign effectively in line with the legal procedures.
“Today, women are not only changing the lives of our families, villages, organizations and countries for the better, but they are bringing new content into the definition of leadership. Many women have already entered the 21st century as leaders, fighting stereotypes and inspiring future generations with their own example. And they expect their village, country and the whole world to follow them, ”- said Ambassador Alexei Rogov, Head of the OSCE Programme Office.
“Thanks to the results of the last elections of local keneshes, for the first time in the history of its independence, Kyrgyzstan got on the international map for achievements of women’s rights issues. This means that the country has a real opportunity to solve the problems of poverty, violence, inequality, which are the foundation of all economic and political issues. This also means that the health of the nation will be resolved at the highest level; issues of education, protection of mothers and children can have a huge breakthrough. This is a success for the whole country, ”-  said UN Women Representative in Kyrgyzstan Ulziisuren Jamsran.
At the end of her speech, U.Jamsran asked women members of keneshes to say the slogan: " Women support women, men support women. " And I hope it becomes a driving force for all of us”, she said.
Followed by her, women who became members of local Keneshes shared the challenges and obstacles that they faced during the April 2021 elections and what contribution women make to the development of the local community in Kyrgyzstan.
Darika Kalykova, member of local kenesh of Kara-Bulak village, Batken region, said: “I am proud that I was elected as a chairwoman of our kenesh. Our work began with a conflict in the border zone, and we started our work with difficult cases. We helped women who were left homeless, we provided the border guards with hot meals, and distributed humanitarian aid. I believe that women will fairly distribute the local budget, solve social and educational issues. I believe that we can meet the expectations of our people. ”
Meerim Moldalieva, Chairwoman of the local kenesh in Baizak village of Naryn region: “With the support of our residents, I became the chairwoman of the local kenesh. Family support plays a huge role in women's leadership. A woman can take care of her family and her community and seek better conditions for her fellow villagers. I want to help our youth get professional education, help orphans and low-income families, improve the infrastructure of the village and improve opportunities for women! ”.
According to the CEC,  the local council elections on April 11, 2021  were held at 448 local keneshes, including 28 towns and 420 villages of the Kyrgyz Republic. It was the first time in the history of the local government elections in Kyrgyzstan to reserve at least 30% of mandates for women in each local keneshes.  As a result of the comprehensive and collaborative work of the Central Elections Committee together with United Nations Development Programme, OSCE Programme Office in Bishkek, UN Women and local NGos, the number of women deputies at local keneshes increased from 11% to 38%.

Media contacts:
Ainagul Abdrakhmanova, head of communication department UNDP
Ainagul.abdrakhmanova@undp.org  Tel: +996 770 755 776

Kunduz Rysbek, head of communication department OSCE
Kunduz.Rysbekkyzy@osce.org  Tel.: +996 755 981 404

Nargiz Koshoibekova, communications specialist UN Women country office
Nargiz.koshoibekova@unwomen.org Tel.: +996 550 981 221
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/128814-number-women-kyrgyz-local-councils-increasing




Date: 26 May 2021
Title: The Kyrgyz Republic’s stakeholders step up to discuss the National Platform for DRR, with support from UNDRR and the EU
Content: 26 May 2021
Bishkek – On 26th May, key members and stakeholders on disaster risk reduction participated in the national workshop to strengthen disaster risk reduction (DRR) governance and to enhance the activities of the National Platform for DRR of the Kyrgyz Republic. The workshop was organized by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR). The event took place within the framework of the “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia” initiative, funded by the European Union.
Good disaster risk governance means acting on science and evidence. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought renewed attention to the importance of strengthening disaster risk reduction.
“We are gathered here as part of the UNDRR Central Asia Initiative “Building Resilience to Disasters and Accelerating Implementation of the Sendai Framework” to discuss and take a fresh look at the challenges of disaster risk reduction. This is especially true in the context of the Covid-19 Pandemic when the word “Disaster” has become clear and understandable in the life of every citizen of our Republic” stated Mr. Azamat Mambetov, State Secretary of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Kyrgyz Republic.
Mr. Eduard Auer – Head of the EU Delegation in Kyrgyz Republic pointed that “Effective work of the National Platform on Disaster Risk Reduction is of great importance nowadays as we are increasingly facing new environmental challenges, risks and threats; this is why it is crucial to support the work of the National Platform, thereby strengthening disaster risk governance in the Kyrgyz Republic.”
The main goal of the workshop was to gather key stakeholders to increase the effectiveness of the National Platform for DRR in the Kyrgyz Republic. The discussions included ensuring that the National Platform for DRR supports the DRR Strategy review and capacity building processes. During the workshop special focus was made on strengthening the information and communications capacity of National Platform for DRR in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Background information
The EU-funded project “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating the implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia”, implemented by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), aims to support countries of the region in implementing the Sendai Framework priorities. The project supports strengthening regional coordination, development of regional DRR strategy, national disaster loss accounting systems, and community-level disaster risk reduction. On the local level, the project supports the development of disaster resilience strategies of capital cities. For this project, the EU committed EUR 3,750,000 for the three-year implementation.
For additional information please contact
Ms. Yerkezhan Amriyeva, Communication specialist, EU Delegation to Kazakhstan, at: yerkezhan.amriyeva@eeas.europa.eu
Mr. Abdurahim Muhidov, UNDRR Regional Programme Coordinator, at: muhidov@un.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/128976-kyrgyz-republic%E2%80%99s-stakeholders-step-discuss-national-platform-drr-support-undrr-and-eu




Date: 25 May 2021
Title: Kyrgyz Republic strengthens systems approach to Disaster Risk Reduction, with the support from UNDRR and EU
Content: 25 May 2021
Bishkek – On 25th May, stakeholders on disaster risk reduction (DRR) in the Kyrgyz Republic took part in the consultative workshop titled “Use of System Approach for Strengthening DRR Governance in the Kyrgyz Republic”. The workshop was organized by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR). This event is part of activities of the Regional initiative “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating the implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia”, funded by the European Union.
Disasters are rapidly producing further disasters to become more complex and deadly, rippling through systems. The COVID-19 pandemic and increasing climate change impacts have demonstrated this and the need to continuously improve each country's disaster risk reduction capacities. The main goal of the workshop was to support the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in the review and update of the national DRR strategic concept, presenting the systems approach to disaster risk reduction governance. Participants discussed the roles and engagement of stakeholders in the DRR system, identified the pathway for assessing the strategic concept implementation and ways for developing new capacities on DRR.
Mr. Azamat Mambetov, State Secretary of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic said: “Special attention should be paid to the fact that today the country is undergoing very important changes in the state management system. A new Constitution has been adopted, practically the entire system of government is changing. The process of inventorying both the legislative base and the Strategic Program Documents is underway. And this seminar as an integral part of the main new ideas and views on the problem of Disaster Risk Reduction.”
“The importance of a comprehensive Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy cannot be underestimated nowadays as we are increasingly facing new environmental challenges, risks, and threats; hence, it is of great importance to support Kyrgyzstan in updating the Strategy and, strengthening the country’s Disaster Risk Governance,” stated Mr. Eduard Auer – Head of the EU Delegation in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Background information
The EU-funded project “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating the implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia”, implemented by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), aims to support countries of the region in implementing the Sendai Framework priorities. The project supports strengthening regional coordination, development of regional DRR strategy, national disaster loss accounting systems, and community-level disaster risk reduction. On the local level, the project supports the development of disaster resilience strategies of capital cities. For this project, the EU committed EUR 3,750,000 for the three-year implementation.
For additional information please contact
Ms. Yerkezhan Amriyeva, Communication specialist, EU Delegation to Kazakhstan, at: yerkezhan.amriyeva@eeas.europa.eu
Mr. Abdurahim Muhidov, UNDRR Regional Programme Coordinator, at: muhidov@un.org

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/128973-kyrgyz-republic-strengthens-systems-approach-disaster-risk-reduction-support-undrr-and-eu




Date: 19 May 2021
Title: Schoolchildren and their parents celebrated International Family Day
Content: 19 May 2021
Osh, Kyrgyzstan –To mark the International Family Day WFP in partnership with the Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic, and with the support from the Russian Industrial Food Service Institute held series of educational events in 14 schools across the country from 4 to 22 May. During the three weeks of the campaign, primary school children and their parents get information on healthy food, well-balanced diets, tips on how to make nutritious menus at home.
Family has a major responsibility not only in providing food for their children but developing their nutrition habits. To strengthen the role of parents in forming healthy eating behaviours and raise awareness WFP is conducting this important campaign.
During the campaign, children were taught the basics of healthy eating through interactive classroom lessons, where teachers presented the benefits of healthy breakfasts and the importance of fruits and vegetables in their diet through thematic games and role-plays. Through these classes, children perceive information more easily. In the framework of the information, campaign parents had a chance to participate in webinars with nutritional experts on the benefits of breakfast for children and what products to give preference to in preparing meals. The campaign reached more than 870 primary school students and their parents across the country.
Today, the International Family Day will close the campaign In Osh province with a sports event that will unite adults and children in achieving one goal – learning altogether about food security and nutrition while engaging in sports activities.
“WFP always puts family in the center of every activity. Supporting children through school meals or improving the livelihoods of their parents through providing training for job opportunities  - supporting households remains the main priority. Today, we are bringing together parents and children to learn about good eating.” -- said WFP Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The event is held within the framework of the WFP programme on Optimizing School Meals in the Kyrgyz Republic, with financial assistance from the Russian Federation. The programme, implemented since 2013, aims at improving the nutrition in primary schools through enhancing the school infrastructure, strengthening the capacity of the school staff and ensuring well-balanced meals at schools.
#                                              #                                              #
For Information
International Day of the Family was established by the UN General Assembly in 1993 and is celebrated annually on May 15 to draw the attention of the general public to the problems of the family and increase the importance of the family as a unit of society.
To learn more about how to build a balanced diet for a young schoolchild and about the Schoolmeals optimization programme, please visit  tamakash.edu.gov.kg
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/127169-schoolchildren-and-their-parents-celebrated-international-family-day




Date: 14 May 2021
Title: New FAO-led food security and nutrition report for Europe and Central Asia elaborates on the costs of a healthy diet
Content: 14 May 2021
Although severe hunger has not been a major issue in Europe and Central Asia in the past 20 years, the region is in part facing an increase of moderate food insecurity - understood as irregular access to nutritious and sufficient food -, while also dealing with the widespread rapid growth of obesity, challenging its ability to achieve food security and improved nutrition, as outlined in the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 2.
Lowering the costs of healthy diets can be crucial to achieving better nutrition and sustainability.
According to the Europe and Central Asia Regional Overview of Food Security and Nutrition 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has posed serious threats to food security and nutrition, especially for low-income and vulnerable populations in the region.
The annual report, produced jointly by FAO, United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), World Food Programme (WFP), World Health Organization (WHO), and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), provides a comprehensive analysis of the topic, including all forms of malnutrition, current dietary patterns, and the costs of diets for individuals, society, and the planet.
Of particular concern in Europe and Central Asia overall is the rapidly worsening situation in some countries of Central Asia, the Commonwealth of Independent States and the Caucasus, which is keeping the region as a whole from achieving the 2030 targets of the SDGs on the prevalence of severe and moderate food insecurity.
"The past 12 months have shown that our health and the functioning of our agrifood systems are fundamental - and that more effort is needed," said Vladimir Rakhmanin, FAO Assistant Director-General and Regional Representative. "We all - including decision makers, the development community, civil society, academia, the private sector and individuals - have to do our part to achieve the Zero Hunger goal, food security and improved nutrition, leave no one behind and promote sustainable agriculture."
"Reducing hunger and malnutrition calls for a life-cycle approach, with special attention paid to children, adolescent girls, mothers and other vulnerable groups," said John Aylieff, WFP Regional Director, Asia and the Pacific. "Zero Hunger is not just about having a belly full. It requires us to work across sectors - from agriculture and social protection to education and health - to ensure a healthy, balanced diet that's also affordable and accessible for all."
"Depending on their production and location, farmers in the region have been particularly hit by the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, in particular in countries with economies in transition," stressed Olga Algayerova, Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations and UNECE. "I call on governments to deploy adequate financial support to farmers. I also invite them to make full use of the UN trade facilitation and border-crossing procedures to keep borders open to facilitate the flow of goods, in particular essential products such as fresh food."
Countries are making headway in the eradication of child stunting and wasting and low birth weight, but an opposite tendency is recorded for anaemia and exclusive breastfeeding during the first six months of life. In all countries of the region, gaps exist in the policy framework for the prevention of obesity and iron deficiency anaemia.
"UNICEF acknowledges the important breakthroughs countries have achieved concerning child stunting, wasting and low birth weight. However, without a redoubling of effort, the region will not meet 2025 and 2030 commitments on childhood obesity, anaemia and exclusive breastfeeding," said Afshan Khan, UNICEF Regional Director for Europe and Central Asia and Special Coordinator for the Refugee and Migrant Response in Europe. "Affordable, healthy diets are the basis of food security and nutrition outcomes, and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has increased the vulnerability of children's nutrition. We have evidence to share with policymakers and food suppliers to take action to improve diets and mobilize health, education and social systems to scale up nutrition results for children."
The prevalence of overweight and obesity is a major problem, even among children, with alarmingly high rates in most countries of the region. According to the World Health Organization, the prevalence of overweight among children aged 6-9 is the highest in Mediterranean countries.
"People living with obesity have an increased risk for severe COVID-19 outcomes," said Hans Kluge, WHO Regional Director for Europe. "COVID-19 has also highlighted how fragile food systems can be - and how important it is to ensure that all people, no matter where and how they live, have access to safe, healthy and sustainable food. For the WHO European region, this is vital, given the alarming situation with obesity - a chronic complex disease in itself and a major risk factor for non-communicable diseases in the region."
Additionally, the region is strongly affected by challenges imposed by the overconsumption of foods high in salt, fat and sugar and the underconsumption of fruits and vegetables. This calls for structural changes in food production and consumption within current food systems. WHO data show that unhealthy diets account for an estimated 86 percent of deaths and 77 percent of the disease burden in the region.
When developing national food security and nutrition strategies, FAO recommends that countries consider the environmental and climate impacts of the reference diet - which is currently not included - and increase education on that.
"The impacts of climate and environmental changes increasingly challenge current governance efforts," said Milan Dacić, WMO Chief for Europe. "Policies are needed that support sustainable land management, reduce air pollution, ensure the supply of food for vulnerable populations, reduce crop loss and limit greenhouse gas emissions associated with agriculture. World Meteorological Organization activities on long-term monitoring; sharing of data, information and knowledge; and improved context-specific forecasts and analysis are vital support to alleviation of the impacts of climate and environmental changes."
Fang also pointed at the disadvantageous composition of food available in the markets of Europe and Central Asia. As revealed in the regional overview, the availability of animal-based foods is above the world average, while the consumption of vegetables, pulses and fish is below the world average. Increased attention to a nutrition-sensitive agriculture facilitating healthy diets would be required. The European Green Deal and From Farm to Fork initiatives are policy frameworks that could facilitate change.
"The main conclusion is that despite good progress in diversifying and moving food availability in the right direction, there is a need to reorient food production and trade systems to enable healthy diets," said Cheng Fang, an FAO economist and the main author of the report. "This may require additional efforts in consumer education and incentives to increase the consumption of fruits and fish, among other foods, to achieve sustainable and healthy nutrition strategies in these countries."
The costs of healthy diets
Healthy diets are generally expensive, as they cost five times more, on average, than diets that cover only the basic energy needs through a starchy staple, according to the FAO report and based on the analysis of food cost/affordability data from 14 selected countries in Europe and Central Asia.
Cost drivers include trade, public expenditures and investment policies throughout agrifood supply chains. To counter their impacts, FAO and the World Food Programme advocate for nutrition-sensitive investments, targeted interventions and social protection policies and programmes to increase the affordability of healthy diets in a sustainable manner. To this end, the experience of Armenia with nutrition-sensitive social protection measures is presented in the report.
"The benefits of a nutritious diet affect not only individuals, but also the society as a whole," said Fang, "and the costs of a nutritious diet are also borne by the entire society."
Overall, the total costs associated with healthy diets are much lower than the costs of current consumption patterns. Were the population to shift to healthy diets, it is projected that direct and indirect health costs would be reduced up to 97 percent and the social cost of greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced by 41-74 percent, according to data from projects in the examined countries. These benefits could potentially increase over time with innovation and the adoption of new technologies involving climate-smart agriculture.
"The momentum created by the pandemic offers us a chance to rethink our agrifood systems, among other issues, and to set off a transformation for better food and nutrition at less cost to the environment. The UN Food Systems Summit convened this fall by the UN Secretary-General, gives us all an excellent opportunity to address this important issue," said Rakhmanin.
The Europe and Central Asia Regional Overview of Food Security and Nutrition 2020 - Affordable Healthy Diets to Promote Health and Address all Forms of Malnutrition is available online in English and Russian.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/126870-new-fao-led-food-security-and-nutrition-report-europe-and-central-asia-elaborates-costs




Date: 03 May 2021
Title: IFAD back to the field to review agricultural value chains project
Content: 03 May 2021
UN International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) Country Director Mr Samir Bejaoui and Mission’s Team Leader Mr Lee Sorensen visited the Kyrgyz Republic in May to assess the progress of the ‘Access to Markets Project (ATMP). The IFAD delegation visited processing enterprises and farming groups seeking grants under the project, and shared the mission’s findings and recommendations with Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Water Resources and Regional Development Mr Azamat Mukashev.
The six-year project (2018-2023), covering all regions of Kyrgyzstan, has an estimated total cost of USD 55.4 million. It aims to develop efficient and sustainable value chains for livestock products such as dairy, livestock, wool and honey, and to modernize sanitary conditions in animal husbandry. Processing enterprises are being encouraged to link up with small farmers and veterinarians to create value chains that improve the incomes of all concerned.
To attract farmers to receive support from the project, social mobilization has been carried out for the raw material providers working with identified agro-processing companies. As a result, 43 farming groups were created to purvey their milk, meat and honey to processing facilities.
Mr Mukashev highlighted challenges related to the quality of livestock breeds and fodder and the degradation of pastures. He also underlined the importance of sustainable value chains for food safety. He added that projects only create real benefit when business structures and government bodies are able to take over the baton of innovative solutions.
Mr Bejaoui confirmed that ATMP is already addressing most of the identified obstacles and that in preparation of the upcoming mid-term review mission foreseen later this year, further focus will be given to the farmers groups’ needs in terms of capacity-building, forage production, increase of breed quality as well as good governance, and therefore ensure sustainability of IFAD’s investment through ATMP in the rural areas of the Kyrgyz Republic.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/130805-ifad-back-field-review-agricultural-value-chains-project




Date: 29 April 2021
Title: UNDRR and EU support “DesInventar-Sendai” Software Training for Kyrgyzstan's Experts
Content: 29 April 2021
On 29 and 30 April, experts from the Kyrgyz Republic stepped up action on disaster resilience through a training on the “DesInventar-Sendai” – a disaster information management software. The workshop was organized by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), in collaboration with CIMA Research Foundation and the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center (ADPC), with the support of the European Union. The event takes place within the framework of the “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia” initiative, funded by the European Union.
Measuring disaster losses is an important element in managing disaster risk. The availability of current and historical information on losses caused by disasters, analysis of tendencies, scale, and impact will help in long-term development and investment planning, in adaptation to the climate change, preparing for new emerging hazards and risks. The system is adapted to the country’s hazard profile, and is based on the existing national mechanisms of disaster information.
As a main benefit, the “DesInventar Sendai” system supports a dialogue on risk management and disaster risk reduction planning between all stakeholders from the local to the regional level. This is especially important in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic which has demonstrated the need to accelerate action on disaster risk reduction and to strengthen information management and exchange.
The two-day training included theoretical and practical exercises on the “DesInventar-Sendai” modules, and brought together specialists in data and information processing and analysis.
The implementation of the “DesInventar Sendai” system software has helped more than 90 countries worldwide to develop sustainable disaster information management systems aligned with the Sendai Framework monitoring process. The system allows to analyze disaster trends and impacts through a large range of sectoral and socio-economical dimensions. As a main benefit, the “DesInventar Sendai” system supports a dialogue on risk management and disaster risk reduction planning between all stakeholders from the local to the regional level.
The EU-funded project “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia”, implemented by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), aims to support countries of the region in implementing the Sendai Framework priorities. The project supports strengthening regional cooperation, development of regional DRR strategy, national disaster loss accounting systems, and community level disaster risk reduction. At the local level, the project supports development of disaster resilience strategies of capital cities. For this project, the EU committed EUR 3,750,000 for the three year implementation.
For additional information please contact
Ms. Yerkezhan Amriyeva, Communication specialist, EU Delegation to Kazakhstan, at: yerkezhan.amriyeva@eeas.europa.eu
Mr. Abdurahim Muhidov, UNDRR Regional Programme Coordinator, at: muhidov@un.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/126334-undrr-and-eu-support-%E2%80%9Cdesinventar-sendai%E2%80%9D-software-training-kyrgyzstans-experts




Date: 15 April 2021
Title: Communities in southern Kyrgyzstan reap rewards of IFAD support
Content: 15 April 2021
IFAD’s Livestock and Market Development Project-2 (LMDP-2) for Kyrgyzstan is nearing completion, and communities of producers in the south of the Republic are already reaping the benefits.
During a visit to the region as part of the project completion process, the joint Government of Kyrgyzstan and IFAD team visited a bridge over the Mashrab-Sai River that was built with IFAD financial support. The infrastructure located in the Nariman ayil okmotu of the Kara-Suu district of the Osh region, has made it easy for livestock breeders to drive and transport animals from one side of the river to the other – an issue which previously caused great difficulties for the local residents. One of the main outcomes unfolding from this investment is that more than 6 ha of pasture area are now made accessible for herders in the region, directly contributing to reducing the grazing pressure on already accessed land and increasing the livestock health. Through this investment, around 47,000 people can now safely cross the river with cattle as well as access additional cultivating plots, thus directly contributing to enhance the food security in the region.
While in the Kara-Suu district, the mission also visited the village council of Mada, where a veterinary training and consulting center has been built.
The center aims at facilitating the adoption of improved, common solutions in the prevention of animal and zoonotic diseases as well as at providing training for veterinarians related on, among other, artificial insemination, production of organic forage, vaccination campaign, etc.
In the village of Kyzyl-Oktyabr, in the Uzgen district, entrepreneur Abdulla Avazov has been growing apples on a two-hectare plot since 2019. To irrigate his orchard, he uses a drip irrigation system co-financed by the LMDP-2.
During its visit to the Osh region to assess the results of the project, the completion review team met with Mr Ayazov, and was briefed on the way the orchard was managed as well as on Mr Ayazov`s expansion plans ahead as prospect for export is real.  This would perpetuate the seasonal job creation of around 20 people during harvesting period (from which 70% of women) and possibly lead to the extension of infrastructure with foreseen storage capacities to be able to sell off-season and increase income.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/126671-communities-southern-kyrgyzstan-reap-rewards-ifad-support




Date: 14 April 2021
Title: IFAD supports financial innovations for Agriculture in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 14 April 2021
​​​​​​On April 14 2021, IFAD-funded project Access to Market Project (ATMP) awarded grants to two financial institutions to support the introduction of innovative products that will help catalyze agricultural development in Kyrgyzstan.
The ATMP is therefore providing grant resource to the Union of Banks of Kyrgyzstan to develop its “Warehouse Receipt Funding” product. The latter involves the development of a tool that will allow producers, traders, processors and exporters of agricultural products to obtain loans secured by warehouse stocks. When accepting goods for storage, the warehouse operator will issue a certificate that can be used as collateral when obtaining a loan. This new product is expected by mid-March 2022.
Aiyl Bank is also to receive funding for the development of its "Online Trade and Logistics Platform for Value Chain Entities". This product aims at the development of the largest agricultural fair trade platform on the local market. The platform, which should be online by mid-October 2021, will connect farmers to industrial and commercial enterprises throughout the Republic, to the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) space, and to other countries with close trade relations with the Kyrgyz Republic.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/126662-ifad-supports-financial-innovations-agriculture-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 08 April 2021
Title: Death of Aizada Renews the Call for Society to End Kidnapping of Women for Forced Marriage
Content: 08 April 2021
UN STATEMENT ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
BISHKEK, 8 April, 2021. - The news reporting the death of Aizada Kanatbekova as the most recent victim of “Ala Kachuu” is a tragic reminder of the need to end this brutal practice. Women and girls of Kyrgyzstan and in all countries everywhere have the right to walk safely in their homeland without being exposed to kidnapping and violence.
The United Nations System in Kyrgyzstan calls on all governmental stakeholders, including law enforcement and security forces to take timely and coordinated actions to respond and address the cases registered under article 175 of the Criminal Code, Abduction of a person for the purpose of marriage, and to ensure effective and prompt investigation when such cases are brought to their attention.
Reaffirming its strong commitment to support the elimination of child, early and forced marriage, the United Nations System in Kyrgyzstan welcomes the official statements of President Sadyr Japarov and Prime Minister Ulukbek Maripov that identify the violent death of Aizada as an unacceptable and preventable national tragedy. The UN supports the people of Kyrgyzstan expressing its intolerance on any form of violence against women and girls, including any behavior associated with “Ala Kachuu”.
In this regard, the UN particularly welcomes deepened collaboration between Government and Civil Society to end harmful practices. The UN further encourages the sustained enactment and enforcement of laws and legal provisions aimed at preventing and eradicating violence against women and girls, while ensuring that survivors are safe and protected, have access to just judicial remedies, and that perpetrators are brought to justice in line with due process of law.
_____
Background:
The United Nations System in Kyrgyzstan is working to support the country’s targeted efforts to end all forms of violence against women and girls, promoting the necessary social norms, attitudes and behaviours through education, and other interventions in order for the Kyrgyz Republic to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal 5, to achieve gender equality and empowerment of women and girls.
UNFPA surveys show that more than one in five women were married through abduction. The practice of forced marriage is a criminal practice and a violation of the rights of women and girls. However, forced and/or child marriage is still a scourge in Kyrgyzstan, with 13% of women between the ages of 20 and 24 having entered into marriage before the age of 18, according to UNICEF data.
Kyrgyzstan’s fifth national periodic report on implementation of the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) will be reviewed in 2021 or 2022. In 2015 Concluding Observations of CEDAW, Kyrgyzstan was recommended to put in place comprehensive measures to prevent and address violence against women and girls and ensure that women and girls who are victims of violence have access to immediate means of redress and protection and that perpetrators are prosecuted and adequately punished; to provide mandatory training for judges, prosecutors, the police and other law enforcement officials on the strict application of criminal law provisions dealing with violence against women; and on gender-sensitive procedures to deal with women who are the victims of violence.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/124292-death-aizada-renews-call-society-end-kidnapping-women-forced-marriage




Date: 06 April 2021
Title: New joint MOH and WHO survey: 55% of the Kyrgyz population express strong or some willingness to get vaccinated
Content: 06 April 2021
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan: The Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Kyrgyz Republic jointly with WHO has released findings of the latest assessment of the experience and perception of COVID-19 by the people in Kyrgyzstan. This assessment was conducted with technical and financial support from WHO and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). It took place in three rounds between December 2020 and February 2021. Results are meant to inform the COVID-19 response and will provide a strong foundation of evidence to guide policies, messaging and communication campaigns.
The assessment is rapid, flexible, cost-effective method of monitoring of public awareness, risk perception, behavioural patterns and confidence levels; the results allow policy makers to adapt COVID-19 response measures and increase their effectiveness.
The data was collected through computer-assisted telephone interviewing (CATI), which covered 1,000 people from seven regions of Kyrgyzstan and two main cities of Bishkek and Osh in each round of data collection. The data collection was supervised by the KR Ministry of Health and Social Development which owns all the data collected under this Project.
"The survey is important because it helps us understand the willingness of people to get vaccinated. We have to realize that today vaccination is one of the main protective measures that can control the pandemic and reduce the numbers of new and fatal cases", said Nazira Artykova, WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
“It is no secret that one of the important elements to reduce the level of transmission of the virus is the behaviour of the population. To effectively fight the epidemic, we need to change the paradigm of behaviour, lifestyle and habits. Such behavioural studies will help to build effective measures to combat COVID-19, as well as identify key points of influence on human behaviour and relevant channels for communicating information. The results of the study will lead to changes in the communication strategy for vaccination", says Bakyt Dzhangaziev, Deputy Minister of Health and Social Development of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Using the findings highlighted below, the MOH is considering ways to focus on recommended actions:
VACCINATION
Recommended actions: Ensure all people have sufficient information about the vaccines that are available; as more people are vaccinated, share their stories widely so the public can hear from those with direct experience; consider a special focus on encouraging health workers to get vaccinated themselves and advocate for vaccination broadly.
KNOWLEDGE/INFORMATION
Recommended actions: Review messaging and information materials to ensure they are understandable to the target populations, revise and disseminate information as necessary; consider testing messages with target audiences; engage with community leaders to provide support for information sharing through social networks (in-person and through social media)
RISK PERCEPTION AND PROTECTIVE BEHAVIOURS
Recommended actions: Using appropriate channels, language and visuals, emphasize the importance of protective behaviours, including event after receiving vaccination, and the presence of COVID-19 in the country.
###
Full versions are available in Russian: 1 round, 2 round, 3 round
For more information please contact:
Akbar Esengulov, WHO Country Office in Kyrgyzstan, esengulova@who.int
Jyldyz Aigerchinova, MOH, jyldyztynybekovna@gmail.com
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/124037-new-joint-moh-and-who-survey-55-kyrgyz-population-express-strong-or-some-willingness-get




Date: 06 April 2021
Title: UNRCCA announces “Preventive Diplomacy Ambassador” youth contest
Content: 06 April 2021
The United Nations Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia (UNRCCA), implements the Preventive Diplomacy Academy project for the third consecutive year. The project aims to build capacity in preventive diplomacy among young people aged between 18-29, residing in areas of the state borders between Central Asian states and as well as with Afghanistan.
The UN General Assembly Resolution A/RES/73/338 (2019) announced year 2021 as the International Year of Peace and Trust. Peace is not just the absence of conflict, but also a positive, dynamic and participatory process in which dialogue is encouraged and conflicts are resolved in a spirit of mutual understanding and cooperation.
The UNRCCA Preventive Diplomacy Academy initiative is being realized in accordance with the 2030 Youth Strategy and the UN Security Council Resolution on Youth, Peace, and Security.
Stressing the importance of preventive diplomacy in supporting the efforts of the United Nations to promote the peaceful settlement of conflicts to preserve peace, UNRCCA announces an international youth contest “Preventive Diplomacy Ambassador”.
This contest is a unique opportunity for selected motivated and proactive young people to join the online series of training on preventive diplomacy, conflict prevention strategy, intercultural communication, leadership skills and public speaking skills.
Upon completion of the training, the participants will join the interregional network of Young Ambassadors for Preventive Diplomacy in Central Asia and Afghanistan to participate in events organized by the UNRCCA and other entities of the UN system.
Submission of the application:
1. Fill in the application form.
2. Write a motivation letter by answering questions in Russian or English language (250-300 words):
a. Why do you feel to be selected as the preventive diplomacy ambassador?
b. Imagine you are the UN Secretary-General for one day. What are the three steps would you take for peacekeeping in your Region? Explain in details.
The winner’s motivation letters will be published in English and Russian languages. Publications will be distributed through the UN platforms and among the government representatives. The electronic version will be available to the public on UNRCCA website.
Applications in English or Russian language must be forwarded by 30 April 2021 via email: aziz.kuliyev@un.org(link sends e-mail)
Criteria that candidates must meet:
Citizens of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, aged from 18 to 29.
Citizens of above mentioned countries, living abroad are also eligible to participate, as well as citizens of other countries who are currently studying in one of these six countries.
Evaluation criteria:
The motivation letters will be evaluated by the UNRCCA Preventive Diplomacy Academy Team.
Only the winners will receive email notification.
We wish you good luck and look forward to receive your applications!
For more information:
Questions may be sent to the Preventive Diplomacy Academy Team via e-mail to:
Mayya Meretkuliyeva: meretkuliyeva@gmail.com(link sends e-mail)
Aziz Kuliyev: aziz.kuliyev@un.org(link sends e-mail)
Additional sources of information:
Website - https://unrcca.unmissions.org/youth-2
Publications - https://unrcca.unmissions.org/publications-1
Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/unrcca/
Twitter - https://twitter.com/UNRCCA
Instagram - https://www.instagram.com/unrcca_academy/
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/124054-unrcca-announces-%E2%80%9Cpreventive-diplomacy-ambassador%E2%80%9D-youth-contest




Date: 02 April 2021
Title: Nutrition of Kyrgyz schoolchildren to be improved through school gardens
Content: 02 April 2021
In the beginning of April, tree planting ceremony was held at the school named after Zhumataev, located in the village of Erkin-Sai of Panfilov district of the Kyrgyz Republic. This event was attended by the representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Regional Development, the Ministry of Education and Science, the World Food Programme (WFP), the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the Embassy of the Russian Federation.
This is a joint initiative of two sister agencies – FAO and WFP - through projects aiming at strengthening Food Security and Nutrition  and optimizing the national School Meals programme in Kyrgyzstan, which are funded by the Russian Federation.
“Today is an important day for us, because by planting this garden we will enrich and diversify our children’s with fresh fruits, compotes and jams straight from the school garden,” - says Dinara Isakbekova, the school director. “Children's health is our top priority, and a balanced diet is the key to the well-being of our students.”
Through the School Meals programme, WFP in support of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic, has reached 185,000 primary school students in 640 pilot schools. At the school named after Zhumataev, WFP introduced hot meals in September 2015, and currently 180 primary school students receive a nutritious meal as part of the program.
FAO's school gardens activities are complementary to the existing school meals programme, which not only supports healthy diets of schoolchildren, but ensures children learn how  food is grown.It is known that school gardens are one of the most effective and cost-efficient ways to diversify school menu with fresh products of own production and provide schools with additional income. School gardens and farms can also serve as unique tools for educating students and their families about nutrition and healthy eating, increasing children’s preferences for healthy foods, building their entrepreneurial skills as well as exposing them to sustainable and climate-smart natural resource management practices. The technical assistance has been provided for the establishment of school gardens in 72 rural schools with above 30 000 of school students in Chui, Naryn, Talas and Issyk-Kul provinces. In total, 25 000 of fruit and berry seedlings were planted on the area of 24 hectares, which annual production capacity is estimated about 1000 tones. The fruits from school gardens will be used to prepare meals for schoolchildren and their surplussold for re-using additional income in improving a school infrastructure and diversifying school meals. Furthermore, the regulation on school gardens that aims to improve nutrition of school meals was developed with the FAO technical assistance in partnership with key institutions and adopted by the Kyrgyz Government in February 2021. Thus, a regulatory instrument on school garden helps further to define the administrative procedures for the establishment and approval of school gardens, creating a framework for their organization, financing and maintenance. Schools will receive full legal rights to establish a school farm on an available land plot in its territory and if there are enough human and technical resources.
“FAO sees its role not only in technical expertise and direct tree planting, it is also important for us to advocate among schoolchildren, teachers and parents the importance of balanced nutrition, and the participation of everyone in this important chain of improving food security in the country”, - said Adnan Qureshi, FAO Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“In WFP we believe that School Meals is one of the most important investments for the future of our children. A balanced and nutritious food contribute to healthy bodies and bright minds for a well-educated and successful future generation of Kyrgyzstan. - said Andrea Bagnoli, Country Director of WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic. – Another investment in future is the trees that are plant today. It is not just about having fruits on the school table, but it is also an act of care for the well-being of our planet.”
School meals optimization in the Kyrgyz Republic is a widely recognized initiative, which has been receiving critical support from national and local authorities, communities, and donors. By 2022, WFP and the Kyrgyz Government plan to reach all schools in the country with nutritious hot meals, including through the adoption of the School Meals Law, a critical breakthrough in boosting the school meals development in the country.
The school food and nutrition program that is linked to the agricultural sector has been actively supported within the framework of the Russian-funded FAO project “Developing capacity for strengthening food security and nutrition in selected countries of the Caucasus and Central Asia" since 2017. The technical assistance included a complex approach through an establishment of a centralized system model for supplying schools with agricultural fresh produce in Kemin District, setting up school orchards, and providing policy and regulatory support on school gardens. In 2021, FAO will continue its support to the implementation of the new school gardens regulation in Kyrgyzstan and sharing knowledge and lessons learned at regional and global scale.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/125185-nutrition-kyrgyz-schoolchildren-be-improved-through-school-gardens




Date: 02 April 2021
Title: 18,500 vulnerable beneficiaries will receive food assistance from WFP, with financial support of Russian Federation
Content: 02 April 2021
Osh –New batch of Food assistance from the Russian Federation arrived to Osh. 610 mt of food will be distributed to support the food security and nutrition of around 4000 vulnerable families in Kyrgyz Republic. Osh –New batch of Food assistance from the Russian Federation arrived to Osh. 610 mt of food will be distributed to support the food security and nutrition of around 4000 vulnerable families in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Over the next five months, WFP will use this contribution to support nearly 100 projects aimed at rehabilitating irrigation networks and cropland and boosting agricultural production, forest expansion, and the construction of bridges and drainage systems. In addition to various training activities (sewing, handicrafts making, beekeeping, cooking, etc.). These will protect the environment and strengthen the communities’ capacity in Osh, Jalal-Abad, and Batken provinces.
Families will receive food assistance in form of 150 kg of fortified wheat flour and 15 liters of vegetable oil to meet their basic food needs and to cover the lean season gap to support their food security and nutrition.
“This new contribution is part of Russia’s long-standing support for the most vulnerable people in the Kyrgyz Republic,” - said Luc Patenaude, Head of WFP office in Osh city. “It will help WFP strengthen social safety nets and build the longer-term resilience of vulnerable rural communities by improving families’ food security and nutrition, increasing production, and raising their incomes. ”
“The Government of the Russian Federation has supported vulnerable communities in developing countries over the past decade. As WFP’s principal donor in the Kyrgyz Republic since food assistance activities were launched in late 2008, Russia has been continuously supporting WFP projects and supporting hundreds of thousands of Kyrgyzstan’s poorest people,” - said the Consul General of Russian Federation to in Osh city Roman Viktorovich Svistin.
The Russian Federation is the largest donor to WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic, funding and providing broad technical and expert support. Since 2008, the Government of the Russian Federation has supported WFP's activities in the Kyrgyz Republic at various levels, from emergency operations, relief and recovery, development projects, and to supporting poor households and schoolchildren.
During the pandemic, WFP, with the support of the Russian Federation, sustained its operations across the country and continued to support people who were most in need because of a social-economic crisis. WFP and the Russian Federation recommit their support to Kyrgyzstan to ensure food security for the country’s most vulnerable to recover from this difficult period to lead productive and healthy lives.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/123802-18500-vulnerable-beneficiaries-will-receive-food-assistance-wfp-financial-support-russian




Date: 01 April 2021
Title: UN and National Counterparts: Social Protection, Health and Education Workplan for 2021 and 2022
Content: 01 April 2021
The United Nations Country Team and the national partners are conducting a series of discussions on the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) Joint Work Plans for 2021 and 2022.
Bishkek, March 26, 2021 – UNICEF as a chair of Results Group (priority 4) on Social protection, Health and Education held consultations with the national counterparts, as part of the ongoing discussions with the line ministries on UNDAF Joint Work Plans (JWPs) for 2021 and 2022.
The current UNDAF was signed with the Government in 2017 for 2018 and 2022, covering four thematic priorities:
The UN committed in 2017 that by the end of 2021 it would try to mobilize 221.1 million USD as the UN contribution to the development in the Kyrgyz Republic, by supporting the Government in realizing the national development strategies through a whole-of-government and a whole-of-society approach to achieve Sustainable Development Goals and ensure that no one in the Kyrgyz Republic is left behind.
The JWPs for 2021-2022 will be presented soon to the UNDAF Steering Committee, co-chaired by Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN Resident Coordinator.
The national technical discussion on Social protection, Health and Education JWP of the UNDAF gathered more than 80 participants. Christine Jaulmes, UNICEF Representative, chaired the meeting sharing the facilitation role with the representatives from UNFPA, UNAIDS, and UNDP.
The participants reviewed the stages of the UNDAF implementation process. 2020 had an enormous impact on UNDAF and JWPs because of the COVID-19 pandemic. UNDP presented the Socio-Economic Response Framework which represents an integrated support package that the UN system, with UNDP providing technical leadership, can leverage to protect the needs and rights of people impacted by the pandemic, with a particular focus on people at the risk of being left behind. The SERF is guided by the UN framework for immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19 that was launched by UN Secretary-General in April 2020. Following the completion of the Disaster Response Coordination Unit’s (DRCU) response to the pandemic in 2020, all the remaining DRCU activities have now been embedded into the SERF, which is an integral part of the JWPs.
As COVID-19 shows reoccurring waves, it negatively impacts the macroeconomic and socioeconomic situation in the country, resulting in a drop in private consumption, import and export shocks and reduced fiscal space, as well as poor-quality employment and lack of decent jobs, fall in remittances, youth unemployment, inflation, prices increase, disruptions in health and other social services, and increase in social tensions potentially leading to domestic and other forms of violence, threatening political stability.
Christine Jaulmes, UNICEF Representative, underlined that because of the COVID-19 crisis, the UN programmes have been adjusted to be able to provide substantial support and look at the way forward while learning from the crisis.
Kamchibek Uzakbaev, the Director of the National Mother and Child Care Center stated: “The National Mother and Child Care Center is one of the main partners of the UN agencies in the implementation of JWP. Thus, we also monitor the progress of our joint work. COVID-19 showed how essential this collaboration is. UN helped during the pandemic to save lives and support our medical staff. The crisis showed that the human resources were the key.”
“No one expected COVID to occur in 2020, and it changed our reality so much. It affected the pension system in the country. The UNDAF covers the social sector, and having this assistance is very valuable. Should be noted that the pension fund is a stable income for many people in the country,” shared Gulnura Djumataeva, the First Deputy Chairman of Social Fund.
Azamat Baialinov, the Head of the UNFPA, presented the UNDAF JWP for 2021-2022. The main objective of the Social Protection, Health and Education pillar of the UNDAF by 2022 is to ensure that social protection, health and education systems are more efficient and inclusive and deliver quality services. It’s expected to have four intermediate results in the above-mentioned areas to cover 20 indicators and 34 actions or events. The total planned budget is 36,747,001 USD and the available sum is 7,523,881 USD.
After the presentation of the proposed JWP for 2021-2022, there was a panel discussion on the following topics: access to education for children of migrants, private sector engagement, air pollution, safe education environment, food safety, the law on volunteering etc.
Kamchibek Uzakbaev, the Director of the National Mother and Child Care Center raised questions on digitalization, which is one of the governmental priorities, and asked to elaborate on this JWP activity as well as called to discuss joint activities against air pollution.
Cholpon Imanalieva, UNICEF Health Specialist advised that UNICEF is working on telemedicine which corresponds to a digitalization of the health system. Regarding air pollution, UNICEF is taking the first approach to assessing and analyzing the impact of air pollution on children.
Anna Kirilenko, the Director of the “BIOM” Ecological movement, made a query about a Safe education environment that covers access to the basic water and sanitation infrastructure, reconsidering Sanitary and Epidemiological Rules.
Chynara Kumenova, UNICEF Education Officer, informed that within the next two years, UNICEF will continue supporting two projects on educating children on knowledge and practices of safe behavior of children during emergencies, while another project will assess WASH situation in schools and kindergartens. Also, Sanitary and Epidemiological Rules in school constructions have been partially improved. The new schools include the inclusivity component at the construction stage; however, the existing schools have difficulties introducing them.
Concluding the meeting, Christine Jaulmes, stated that implementation of the JWP requires essential efforts in the mobilization of funds and overcoming the challenges in the light of the pandemic which has started in 2020 but is still ongoing. The JWP on the Social Protection, Health and Education for 2021-2022 will be finalized by addressing commentaries voiced during the consultations and will be presented during the upcoming UNDAF Steering Committee meeting, chaired by the Prime Minister and the UN Resident Coordinator.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/123745-un-and-national-counterparts-social-protection-health-and-education-workplan-2021-and-2022




Date: 30 March 2021
Title: SRSG Natalia Gherman meets with the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov
Content: 30 March 2021
On March 30, Natalia Gherman, Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Central Asia, Head of the UN Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia (UNRCCA), met Sadyr Japarov, the President of the Kyrgyz Republic, to discuss the political and socioeconomic reform process in the context of the upcoming constitutional referendum and the local as well as parliamentary elections.
The SRSG informed that the UN closely follows developments in the country and underlined that it is important to conduct reforms in an inclusive and transparent manner, based on the rule of law, good governance and human rights principles, in line with the Joint Statement of Intent between the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN issued by both sides on 13 November 2020. She stated that such comprehensive approach would contribute to the trust building between the people and the authorities, which is crucial for long term stability and prosperity in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The SRSG informed about the current UN assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic under the Framework of Socio-Economic Response to alleviate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the electoral assistance project and other programs.  The UN will further assist judicial and administrative reforms through expertise and technical assistance. The SRSG proposed to establish an UN-Kyrgyzstan Human Rights Dialogue, which would enable the timely provision of  necessary information exchange and expert support in all relevant areas.
In response, President Japarov outlined his strong intention to ensure that the rights of the people, including freedom of speech, are preserved and all international commitments of the country are respected. He underlined his personal responsibility for the reform process. The President thanked the UN for supporting the Kyrgyz Republic in the current challenging times and expressed strong interest to cooperate with UN entities in the specific areas of the reform agenda.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/123631-srsg-natalia-gherman-meets-president-kyrgyz-republic-sadyr-japarov




Date: 26 March 2021
Title: UN Presents Achievements under UNDAF Priority II: Good Governance, Rule of Law, Human Rights, and Gender Equality
Content: 26 March 2021
On 26 March 2021, UN together with national partners reviewed progress and achievements gained under UN Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) Priority II: Good Governance, Rule of Law, Human Rights, and Gender Equality, in 2018-20 and discussed the UNDAF Joint Work Plans for 2021-22.
Ms. Louise Chamberlain, Chair of UNDAF Working Group 2, UNDP Resident Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic, greeted the meeting participants and introduced Co-Chair of UNDAF Priority II Result Group (RG), Richard Komenda - Regional Representative of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in Central Asia. Ms. Chamberlain informed about the main target area of ​​work of this group - strengthening government bodies in the field of rule of law, human rights, gender equality, contributing to accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels that ensure justice, respect for human rights and gender equality, and sustainable peace for all. Ms. Louise Chamberlain called on the participants – representatives of ministries, state agencies, civil society, to actively participate in the development of the work plan by providing their suggestions, as well as expectations of action from the UN system agencies, which are partners rather than donors, focusing on results and working together with the government, and helping to implement the plans and working with partners at various levels.
She noted that UN agencies are mobilizing funds for the country, attracting various donors and helping the country to mobilize them for the country's development and its priorities. Ms. Louise Chamberlain said UN agencies are developing institutional capacities at the country level, which helps the country to achieve its goals, and try to quickly respond to the country's requests, and the experience of responding during the last year's pandemic has shown, the development of a response strategy in the emergency situation. At the end of her greeting, Mrs. Chamberlain expressed her hope for the active participation of the parties in discussing the results in order to learn lessons and optimize the planning process for subsequent joint events.
The UN also presented the UN Framework Program on Socio-Economic Measures to Overcome the Consequences of COVID-19 in the Kyrgyz Republic (SERF), which is an integral part of the UNDAF and was included in the joint work plans of all working groups. The programme provides a framework for rapid humanitarian response, and inter-sectoral response plan on emergency situations, with the Ministry of Emergency Situations as a leading state body in this process. The SERF is guided by the UN framework for immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19 that was launched by UN Secretary-General in April 2020.
The UN also presented some of the key achievements: In 2020, the UN system has provided Election Assistance through upgrading more than 2,000 biometric voter identification kits, developing capacity for the CEC and 6,500 biometric voter identification operators to effectively manage the electoral process; increasing in number of voters registered abroad from 13,000 to 49,479; increasing transparency of campaign financing (electronic platform, procedures and analysis), participation of women and youth in the electoral process, and complied with safety requirements in view of COVID-19, purchase of PPE. The UN also helped the Parliament improve the public hearing process on budget issues and increasing public awareness of budget processes, and public involvement and engagement with Parliament through partnerships with civil society to promote civic education, public monitoring, and strengthen public input into legislation and policy development.
In 2021, the UN system will support the Kyrgyz Republic in three main areas:
1: Parliament, national and local governments have the capacity to develop accountable and transparent evidence-based policies to address issues of national importance for a more peaceful and inclusive society;
2. The justice system and key state institutions at all levels have the capacity to effectively implement public policies and plans, with effective participation of CSOs, to promote and protect human rights, uphold the rule of law, and improve access to justice and quality services;
3. Strengthen social cohesion by building community resilience to violent ideologies, including migrants, women and youth, religious leaders, civic activists.
For comprehensive support in these three main areas, $19,088,006 are required, while $ 9,104,689 is available, and $10,783,317 needs to be mobilized.
The national partners called for stronger emphasis in the JWPs on eliminating gender-based violence with closer engagement of local government and law enforcement agencies. Other requests included more focus on introduction of digital technologies to work on access to justice, strengthening free legal aid, closer collaboration with private sector, introduction of new training algorithms for prosecutors and investigators.
For information:
The current UNDAF was signed with the Government in 2017 for 2018 and 2022, covering four thematic priorities:
The UN committed in 2017 that by the end of 2021 it would try to mobilize 221.1 million USD as the UN contribution to the development in the Kyrgyz Republic, by supporting the Government in realizing the national development strategies through a whole-of-government and a whole-of-society approach to achieve Sustainable Development Goals and ensure that no one in the Kyrgyz Republic is left behind.
The JWPs for 2021-2022 will be presented soon to the UNDAF Steering Committee, co-chaired by Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN Resident Coordinator.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/124409-un-presents-achievements-under-undaf-priority-ii-good-governance-rule-law-human-rights-and




Date: 26 March 2021
Title: UN and National Partners Discuss UNDAF Joint Work Plans for 2021-22: Sustainable and Inclusive Economic Growth
Content: 26 March 2021
In his opening remarks, Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Representative and Chair of the UNDAF priority area I, noted the importance of this priority area to recover from the pandemic, which proved to be more than a health crisis, but also socio-economic one.
The current UNDAF was signed with the Government in 2017 for 2018 and 2022, covering four thematic priorities:
The UN committed in 2017 that by the end of 2021 it would try to mobilize 221.1 million USD as the UN contribution to the development in the Kyrgyz Republic, by supporting the Government in realizing the national development strategies through a whole-of-government and a whole-of-society approach to achieve Sustainable Development Goals and ensure that no one in the Kyrgyz Republic is left behind.
Aziz Azamatov, Head of the Sector for Coordination of Foreign Aid in the Department of Economics and Investments, Office of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, informed that at this time work has begun on the development of medium-term priorities for the Kyrgyz Republic until 2026, and noted the importance of harmonizing these priorities with the UNDAF plan. Mr. Azamatov urged to pay special attention to the economic component of the UNDAF, due to the COVID situation, the economic sector has become vulnerable and needs comprehensive support. He also emphasized the importance of working to strengthen the social orientation of domestic business in the field of corporate social responsibility and social entrepreneurship. He urged to pay attention to practical measures in the second biennial work plan and, in conclusion, expressed confidence in the further development of fruitful and coordinated cooperation between the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and UN agencies.
Marat Usupov, Country Representative of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, presented a report on the activities within the framework of UNDAF priority I. Despite the difficult situation associated with the pandemic last year, the UN system continued to provide uninterrupted assistance to the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. In particular, in the first priority area, monitoring and analysis of the impact of the pandemic on labour markets, work to support businesses to create jobs, the development of domestic producers, training of the population to improve employment opportunities, support of business relations between exporters and manufacturers, support of vulnerable groups of the population through the provision of food aid; and agricultural production support. A total of 12 UN agencies are contributing to the achievement of 3 intermediate results of this priority. Marat Usupov noted the involvement of a wide range of partners from ministries and agencies, local authorities and civil society, academic and private sectors in the implementation of this strategy. Then he introduced the list of events planned for 2021-2022 and noted the importance of coordinated actions in achieving the indicated results and urged the participants to make all the necessary efforts to achieve the set goals.
Abdybek Asanaliev, Dean of the Faculty of Agronomy and Forestry, KNAU named after K.I. Scriabin, stressed that last year, as a result of the pandemic, the number of vulnerable people both in rural areas and in cities increased, resulting in a large pressure on the environment, so it is important to reconsider plans and priorities. He also noted the importance of introducing nutrition sensitive agriculture, as it is widely used in developed countries.
According to the food security and nutrition program (2019-2023), which covers the entire country, he noted that it is important to develop a local food security and nutrition program at the aiyl okmotu level based on the resources of the cultivated area and livestock. He also expressed his opinion on clear indicators for tracking the progress of the program for its contribution to country development and on the expenditure of funds from the Government.
Andrea Bagnoli, Chair of UNDAF Working Group 1, commented that one of the goals of Priority I is also to ensure rural development, food security and nutrition for all, which is important in a country where more than 60% of the population lives in rural areas and therefore in in the face of multiple needs and limited resources, efficient allocation and direction of available resources is essential. He noted the Government's efforts to stabilize market prices and food access and availability, as well as the role of the private sector in accelerating rural and economic development. Together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Regional Development and the Ministry of Health and Social Development, WFP, FAO and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) continue to work at the central and local levels to develop plans for rural development and food security and nutrition and to improve access to food without leaving the most vulnerable behind.
Concluding the meeting, Andrea Bagnoli stated that the existing National Development Strategy and various ministerial technical strategies under revision or development are an additional opportunity to address government priorities and work out how the UN system can support these government priorities and how to ensure full involvement of civil society and the private sector. This biennial plan will also serve as the basis for a new development framework for the next 5 years, so the implementation process needs to learn lessons and examine gaps and best practices for the successful implementation of the next 5-year plan.
This discussion is part of the ongoing consultations with the line ministries on UNDAF Joint Work Plans (JWPs) for 2021 and 2022, which will be presented to the UNDAF Steering Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister and UNRC, in spring 2021.
Photos from the event.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/125306-un-and-national-partners-discuss-undaf-joint-work-plans-2021-22-sustainable-and-inclusive




Date: 17 March 2021
Title: Sustainable Development Goals can guide North and Central Asia to build back better, says UN report
Content: 17 March 2021
Almaty (ESCAP News) – The Asia-Pacific region must accelerate progress everywhere and urgently reverse its regressing trends on many Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to achieve its ambitions by 2030, says a report released today by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP).
The 2021 edition of the Asia and the Pacific SDG Progress Report shows that the region fell short of its 2020 milestones for the Goals, even before entering the global pandemic.  In the last decade, Asia and the Pacific has made extraordinary progress in good health and well-being (Goal 3), which may partly explain its relative success in reducing the health impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on its population. Yet despite these hard-won gains, the region faces many challenges, such as providing an adequate healthcare workforce, reducing premature deaths and improving mental health.
Despite good progress on several goals, North and Central Asian countries need to redouble efforts in reversing negative trends. The prevalence of moderate and severe food insecurity in the subregion is approximately 17 per cent of the total population and has been increasing in recent years. North and Central Asia also needs to reverse current trends on inequality indices for education, gender parity in labour force participation and compliance with labour rights.
An alarming observation in the report is regressing climate action trends (Goal 13) and life below water (Goal 14). The Asia-Pacific region is responsible for more than half of the global greenhouse gas emissions and adverse impacts of natural disasters on people and economies increase year-by-year. As we find our way out of this pandemic, the report suggests we must focus efforts on more equitable and greener growth.
“Recovery measures are an excellent opportunity for us to rethink our options for development pathways that are inclusive, more resilient, and respect planetary boundaries,” said United Nations Under-Secretary-General and ESCAP Executive Secretary Ms. Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana. “As we enter the Decade of Action to deliver the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we need to reinforce our collective commitment to the SDGs and let it provide our compass for building back together, better and greener.”
The report highlights the impact of mandatory lockdowns and social distancing measures on data collection activities, particularly from vulnerable groups. To build back better, Governments should renew their commitments to the SDGs’ monitoring framework so that recovery can accelerate a global transformation as promised by the 2030 Agenda.
As part of its commitment to support countries with national level follow-up and review of the SDGs, ESCAP has developed a “National SDG Tracker” tool for countries looking to replicate the progress assessment found in the report. National governments can use the tool to produce snapshots of progress towards the ambitions of the 2030 Agenda.
Download the full Asia and the Pacific SDG Progress Report here:  https://www.unescap.org/sites/default/d8files/knowledge-products/ESCAP_Asia_and_the_Pacific_SDG_Progress_Report_2021.pdf.
For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Katie Elles, External Relations Officer
Communications and Knowledge Management Section, ESCAP
escap-scas@un.org

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/122174-sustainable-development-goals-can-guide-north-and-central-asia-build-back-better-says-un




Date: 16 March 2021
Title: Science, technology and innovation are key to transform agri-food systems in Central Asia
Content: 16 March 2021
FAO Director-General spoke at the Third Meeting of the Central Asian Ministers of Agriculture

On 15th of March Kyrgyzstan hosted an online high-level meeting of Agriculture Ministers of Central Asian countries, with the participation of Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) QU Dongyu.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Regional Development of the Kyrgyz Republic, in coordination with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), held the Third Meeting of Ministers of Agriculture of the Central Asian countries, focusing on issues of science, technology and innovation in agriculture that can contribute to the transformation of agri-food systems in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.
"The pandemic is giving us a rare opportunity to reset, rethink and redouble our efforts to build forward better and greener, using coordinated approaches that are inclusive, holistic, and coherent," the Director-General said alluding to the region's major potential for establishing innovative models for cooperation fostering game-changing solutions to common challenges.
He stressed the importance of making agri-food systems capable of providing access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food for all, while ensuring environmental sustainability. To this end, he encouraged Ministers to revisit their development strategies with a focus on innovation, policy, investment and infrastructure, including roads, food storage and research facilities. The FAO chief also underscored the need to carry out holistic feasibility studies in order to attract more investment.
For his part, the Minister of Agriculture, Water Resources and Regional Development of the Kyrgyz Republic, Askarbek Janybekov, noted that the pandemic unveiled the vulnerability of food systems and the immediate need for introducing new technologies in the sector. Given how interconnected food systems in the region are, these issues cannot be addressed in isolation, the Minister stressed. Today's meeting proves that the countries in Central Asia share the common vision, and are ready to tackle the challenges together in line with the global and regional agendas, the Minister added.
This is the first ministerial meeting of all, which was personally attended by the Director-General of FAO.
Additional information
Meetings of the Ministers of Agriculture of Central Asia are facilitated by FAO with the aim to provide a forum to deliberate on important and relevant topics related to agriculture and jointly reflect on agricultural development trends in the region.
They are attended by the Ministers responsible for Food and Agriculture from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan Uzbekistan and FAO as well as by the regional representatives of International Financial Institutions and Organizations (EBRD, IDB, IFAD, World Bank, Eurasian Development Bank, ITU etc.).
The first meeting of the Ministers of Agriculture of Central Asia was held on 19 May 2020 on "Food Security and Agricultural Development under COVID-19: Sharing Good Practices and Coordinating the Response". The meeting was hosted by the Minister of Agriculture of Uzbekistan.
The second meeting took place on 8 December 2020, on the theme of "Digital Agriculture: Opportunities and Challenges" and was hosted by the Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/116446-science-technology-and-innovation-are-key-transform-agri-food-systems-central-asia




Date: 16 March 2021
Title: Kyrgyzstan joins global ‘Ring the Bell for Gender Equality’ movement
Content: 16 March 2021
Kyrgyzstan joined others around the world to ‘Ring the Bell for Gender Equality’ on 16 March, with the Kyrgyz Stock Exchange (KSE) dedicated its opening ceremony of trading to an event headlined: The role of women in the development of business and economy of Kyrgyzstan.
The first-of-its-kind event aimed at raising awareness about the opportunities for the private sector to advance gender equality and sustainable development. During the session, participants discussed the role of women on directors’ boards and in the development of the country's business and economy.
Meerim Askarbekova, a member of the board of directors of Kyrgyz Stock Exchange, spoke about the role of women in the stock market. Meanwhile, an expert on the green economy, Nurzat Abdyrasulova, discussed the contribution of women to the development of energy and environmental conservation in Kyrgyzstan. The founder of the Women's Entrepreneurship Development Fund, Asel Kubanychbekova, also gave an overview of women's entrepreneurship in Kyrgyzstan. In addition, Yulia Kholodkova, coordinator of the IFC Sustainable Social and Governance Practices Programme, spoke about the benefits of having women on directors’ boards.
The event was created through a partnership between the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, the UN Global Compact, UN Women, Women in ETFs, and the World Federation of Stock Exchanges.
Through this event, Kyrgyzstan joined the Women's Empowerment Principles global initiative. The initiative is currently supported by over 4,000 companies worldwide.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/122173-kyrgyzstan-joins-global-%E2%80%98ring-bell-gender-equality%E2%80%99-movement




Date: 15 March 2021
Title: Healthy Eating Month starts in schools of Kyrgyzstan
Content: 15 March 2021
Bishkek – The First Deputy Minister of Education of the Russian Federation, the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic, Representatives of the UN World Food Program (WFP) and of the Social and Industrial Foodservice Institute (SIFI) visited the school #70 to launch the “Healthy Eating Month” campaign. The initiative is timed to coincide with the International School Meals Day, which around the world is celebrated on 11 March to raise awareness on the importance of healthy and nutritious school feeding programmes which not only generate high returns in increasing human capital, they also enhance local economies, especially the earning power of women; and can support peacebuilding  and community resilience.
The "Healthy Eating Month" campaign aims to stimulate students' interest and desire to lead a healthy lifestyle, to choose foods and dishes that are good for them, building from childhood the foundation for proper eating behaviour throughout the rest of their lives.
“Healthy nutrition during a child's stay at school, as well as at home, is one of the prerequisites for maintaining health and academic success. We are proud that WFP supports the government to provide healthy meals in more than 700 schools across the country “– said WFP Kyrgyz Republic Country Director Andrea Bagnoli. “It’s an investment that pays off in the future with better educated, stronger and healthier adults, and it’s also a critical safety net to prevent the most vulnerable children from suffering in times of economic difficulties.”
Since 2013, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic in partnership with the UN World Food Program and SIFI, with financial support from the Russian Federation and other partners, has been implementing the Optimized School Meals Programme aimed at improving nutrition in the country's primary schools. School meals optimization in the Kyrgyz Republic is a widely recognized initiative, which has been receiving critical support from national and local authorities, communities, parents, and donors. WFP supported the Kyrgyz Government also in the development and adoption of the School Meals Law, a critical breakthrough in boosting the school meals development in the country. By 2022, WFP and the Kyrgyz Government plan to cover around 200 additional schools in the country with nutritious hot meals.
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/116317-healthy-eating-month-starts-schools-kyrgyzstan




Date: 10 March 2021
Title: Women's Leadership – Breakthrough into a New Era
Content: 10 March 2021
UN Women in Kyrgyzstan held the Forum ‘Women's Leadership – Breakthrough into a New Era’ at the Ala-Archa State Residency. The event was aimed at showcasing the diversity of women's leadership and the significant contribution that women make to development in Kyrgyzstan, especially in the face of the new challenges and COVID-19.
The forum coincided with a number of other key events marking significant milestone for gender equality. These included, the 95th anniversary of the beginning of the women's movement in Kyrgyzstan; the global campaign dedicated to International Women's Day on 8 March; the 65th session of the Commission on the Status of Women; as well as the global youth campaign – Generation Equality.
This Forum provided unique opportunity to celebrate the significant efforts of women and girls across Kyrgyzstan to shape a more equitable future and to emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic. The Forum served as a platform for dialogue between leaders of generations, raising the importance of women's participation in political processes to the forefront especially in the light of the upcoming elections to local (councils) keneshes.
Representatives from the Government of Kyrgyz Republic, international and civil society organizations attended the Forum alongside activists and representatives from the culture and business sectors. Women leaders from all regions of Kyrgyzstan shared their experience of leadership at various levels of decision-making, during the fight against the pandemic and beyond.
Online participation was offered bringing onboard various participants from all regions of the country. There were four panel discussions in total: intergenerational relationships; elections and the political participation of women; women at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19 and leadership advice.
In honor of the 95th anniversary of the women's movement in the Kyrgyz Republic, the outstanding contributions of the founders of the modern-day women's movement of the country, Ms. Rosetta Aitmatova, Ms. Kulbubu Bekturganova and Ms. Roza Otunbayeva, were acknowledged and commended.
The Forum ‘Women's Leadership – Breakthrough into a New Era’ was made possible by the UNDP Program ‘Support for Elections in Kyrgyzstan 2020-2021' with the support of the Government of Switzerland, the Government of Japan and by European Union and UN joint program ‘Spotlight initiative’.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/115795-womens-leadership-%E2%80%93-breakthrough-new-era




Date: 10 March 2021
Title: Half of the households in the Kyrgyz Republic lost income due to COVID-19
Content: 10 March 2021
BISHKEK, March 03, 2021 – 51% of the households[1] in Kyrgyzstan lost income due to COVID-19, according to a household survey on the impact of COVID-19 on the situation of children and women in Kyrgyzstan. The survey, conducted in November-December 2020 by the National Statistics Committee with the financial and technical support of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), as part of the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, was presented today. In total, 3,869 households answered the questionnaire.
Overall, 76% of the households in the Kyrgyz Republic were affected by COVID-19. Among the difficulties faced during the pandemic, a decrease in household income ranked first (reported by 51% of the households), followed by dissatisfaction with remote learning from the parents or guardians of children (32%), the fact that a family member contracted COVID-19 or died from it (29%), emotional distress felt by an adult member of the household(20%).
28% of households received social support/assistance (either food aid or financial support), among which 79% received it from government agencies.
86% of the households surveyed have children aged 0-17. Almost every second household had at least one child under the age of 5 years. Distance learning covered about 83% of children aged 7-17 years. The share of children whose parents are not satisfied with the online learning process was 78%.
Regarding newborns and pregnant women, prenatal care was provided to all women aged 15-49 who gave birth to a newborn during last year, and antenatal care was provided by a doctor in 84% of cases and by nurses, midwives and paramedics in 16% of the cases. Among women who gave birth to a child in the past 12 months, 89% of women had four or more antenatal visits. At least two vital observations were received by 99.8% of newborns in the first two days after birth.
After the child's birth, about 65% of women in labour were in a medical institution from 12 hours to 4 days. However, after discharge from the medical institution, only 11% of newborns were visited for postnatal observation in the first two days and 47% in the first six days.
The survey results showed that care for children aged 2-4 years was carried out mainly by adult members of the household (94.7%), but  the father's participation (12.6%) was minimal. The number of children aged 3-4 years participating in early education programmes in institutions was around 7%. 15% of children under the age of five were alone for more than an hour or in the care of another child under 10 at least once per week.
Among the preschool children who attended preschool educational institutions before the outbreak of COVID-19, about 29% used the provided television programmes and digital platforms for development.
Finally, regarding COVID-19 preventive measures, the proportion of children whose parents discussed with their children the safe precautions they should take to reduce the risk of COVID-19 infection was more than 98%.
The study can be found here.
On MICS:
The Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) is an international household survey programme developed by UNICEF. MICS is designed to collect solid and internationally comparable estimates of key indicators that are used to assess the situation of children and women in the areas of health, education, child protection, HIV/AIDS and many others.
For reference:
The National Statistical Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic informs that, as part of the study of the impact of coronavirus on the population, two independent surveys, "Impact of COVID-19 on households" and "Impact of Covid-19 on the situation of children and women in Kyrgyzstan" were conducted. For each survey, independent samples and individual questionnaires were used.
The survey "Impact of Covid-19 on the situation of children and women in Kyrgyzstan" is aimed at a detailed assessment of the coverage of basic social services for children during the pandemic, including antenatal and postnatal care for mothers and children, early childhood development, child education, as well as getting insights on the financial situation and social support of households.
Household Statistics Division
| e-mail: Y.Kalymbetova@stat.kg | Tel. + 996 (312) 324655
When using official statistics data and corresponding metadata, users are obliged to refer to their source (Article 30 of the Law "On Official Statistics").
[1] Definition of Household: a person or a group of persons living together in a dwelling and providing themselves with everything necessary for life through a common household, fully or partially pooling and spending their funds. These persons may be linked by marriage and family relations, kinship relations, or without the presence of such a relationship.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/115588-half-households-kyrgyz-republic-lost-income-due-covid-19




Date: 10 March 2021
Title: Milan Fashion Week: Rural mountain women collaborate with top Italian designer
Content: 10 March 2021
A unique collection by Italian-Haitian fashion designer Stella Jean and craftswomen from the mountains of Kyrgyzstan will be highlighted at Milan Fashion Week today.
The collaboration is supported by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) through its Women’s Committee and the Mountain Partnership Products initiative, a global branding scheme promoting products from small-scale producers in mountain areas.
 
The initiative builds resilience of mountain people, many of whom live with threats of climate change and are poor and marginalized.
 
Stella Jean, a champion of ethical fashion, partnered with the Mountain Partnership Products initiative after being introduced by the FAO Women’s Committee to the work of the Kyrgyz women from Barskoon, a settlement at 1750 meters elevation in the northeast of the country.
 
“When I saw the women's silk and felt work, I immediately knew that they are the backbone of eco-sustainable fashion. They are custodians of a circular economy which is equitable and has a low environmental impact,” Jean said.

The women create carpets, wall hangings and silk-and-felt scarves using traditional feltwork handed down through generations. In 2017, with support from the Mountain Partnership Products initiative, they formed an artisan group called Topchu to produce and market products collectively. Thanks to the sales of their scarves around the world, the women have been able to boost their incomes, support their children’s education and expand their vegetable gardens.
Inspired by the women’s products, Jean worked online amid a COVID-19 lockdown with a local designer based in Bishkek on a sustainable fashion collection featuring traditional Kyrgyz embroidery in feltwork. The women of Topchu then used the designs to create the items, before shipping them back to Italy.
“All the garments are embroidered with designs in felt, an organic fibre integral to Kyrgyz culture and way of life. By preserving and promoting this centuries-old example of sustainability, we help safeguard cultural heritage and morph what was once a supply chain into a value chain,”says Jean.
The women of Topchu will retain ownership of the designs and will be able to reproduce the fashion items and sell them directly, benefiting from the increased international exposure.
Senior FAO Forestry Officer Yuka Makino, who is the Coordinator of the Mountain Partnership Secretariat, said: “This collaboration is a powerful example of how cultural heritage can be a driver of sustainable development in mountains. It also shows how partnerships with the private sector can bring innovative solutions.”
Funded by the Italian Development Cooperation, the Mountain Partnership Products initiative promotes high-quality mountain products to improve small mountain producers' livelihoods. The initiative provides capacity development, enables access to new markets, and creates links with the private sector.
The initiative is coordinated by the Secretariat of the Mountain Partnership, a United Nations alliance that works to improve livelihoods and manage resources sustainably in mountain communities.
 
In developing countries, almost 350 million people living in the mountains are vulnerable to food insecurity – an increase from 243 million in 2000.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/115582-milan-fashion-week-rural-mountain-women-collaborate-top-italian-designer




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: International Women’s Day 2021
Content: 08 March 2021
At the Last United Nations General Assembly in September 2020, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic together with other world leaders reconfirmed the need for fundamental socio-economic transformation in order to reach the sustainable future outlined in the 2030 Agenda. The window for action is the next decade which we entered this year, and which was recognized by the UN General Assembly as “decisive decade for People and the Planet”.
The United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic welcomes the efforts of the Government of Kyrgyz Republic, civil society, academia, media, private sector and other stakeholders on promoting equality, preventing violence against women, and fostering the participation of women in public life and honoring the State’s commitments to women and girls of Kyrgyzstan.
The 2030 Agenda reaffirms that gender equality is an essential foundation for sustainable development in any country. Therefore the national development of the Kyrgyz Republic is directly related to how much Kyrgyzstani women are able to participate and to hold leadership positions in the society and economy.   A gender-responsive path towards the SDGs in Kyrgyzstan largely depends on how the State will be able to accelerate its actions to fulfill existing and new commitments to gender equality and women’s human rights.
This year, the theme for International Women’s Day, “Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world,” celebrates the tremendous efforts by women and girls around the world in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and highlights the gaps that remain.
Women’s full and effective participation and leadership in all areas of life drives progress for everyone. The role of women in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic in Kyrgyzstan has proven the same. Yet, women are still underrepresented in public life and decision-making. In addition to persisting social and systemic barriers to women's participation and leadership, the COVID-19 pandemic has created new barriers. Women face an increase in domestic violence, unpaid care responsibilities, unemployment and poverty, and women from some groups are affected more than the others. Although women make up the majority of frontline workers, there is a disproportionate and inadequate representation of women in national policy-making processes related to COVID-19.
Approaching International Women’s Day serves as another reminder that the State has to accelerate its efforts to protect and promote women’s rights, dignity and leadership by creating an enabling policy, legal, institutional and other conditions for women to realize their rights. The Kyrgyz Republic should not lose the gains it has made over the past decades on women’s rights and empowerment, but should continue to  push for wholesale, rapid and sustainable change.
An important element for the protection human rights and empowerment of women is to ensure the proper realization of the fundamental freedoms, including the right to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression.
World leaders are uniting under the “Generation Equality Forum” appeals and signing up to the Political Engagement Strategy on ending violence against women in response to the appeal of the UN Secretary-General António Guterres. We therefore call on the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and all political and civic leaders to affirm their commitment to the appeal by Mr. Guterres, and through demonstrable action to enhance the role and participation of women in all forms of decision making in the society and the economy.
On the occasion of International Women’s Day of 2021, let us all amplify and support women and girls in all spheres of life in Kyrgyzstan who are breaking down barriers and championing to create a better world for everyone. Let us all unite and bring about the real change in the lives of women and girls, working hand in hand together with them through their equal participation and voice. Let everyone commit to working towards a prosperous and bright future of Kyrgyzstan that includes all the women and girls.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/115386-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-2021




Date: 01 March 2021
Title: UNICEF: Only 40% of the population of the Kyrgyz Republic is aware of the need of respecting physical distance to avoid spreading COVID-19
Content: 01 March 2021
BISHKEK, March 1, 2021 – The “Assessment of COVID-19 experience and perception by population of Kyrgyzstan” was conducted in the framework of Sakta National Communication Campaign launched by the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic last September, with support from the UN system and other development partners, for the prevention of COVID‐19 contamination.
This research, commissioned by UNICEF, is aimed at analyzing data to better shape the response to COVID-19, including perceived severity of COVID-19; perceived risk of contracting COVID -19; awareness about measures to prevent the spreading of COVID -19; and extent of awareness about COVID -19 symptoms. It aims at identifying factors that consciously or subconsciously influence attitudes and behaviors related to COVID-19, such as risk perception and adherence to prevention measures.
Data collection was done through phone survey method in November 2020. 1,000 people were interviewed from all seven provinces of Kyrgyzstan and two main cities - Bishkek and Osh.
The survey demonstrated a fairly high perception about the severity of contracting COVID-19 by the population. 72% of the respondents assessed the seriousness of infection, in case of contracting it, as severe (31% - as moderately severe, 41% - as extremely severe). However, significant differences in the perceived severity level are observed depending on age group. The share of young people aged 18-29 who assess the disease as severe was 65%, while in older age groups (50 years and older) it rises to 82%.
In terms of the perceived risk of contracting COVID-19 in Kyrgyzstan, 57% of the population estimates that the probability of infection is likely. Important geographical differences were identified in relation to this question: while 74% of the population of Osh City find it likely, only 43% of Batken population were of the same opinion.
The survey also exposed significant gaps in the knowledge of measures that should be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19. While 82% are aware that handwashing is an important protection measure and 77% know about the use of masks, only 40% mentioned physical distance.
“While the survey shows that the majority of the population is aware of the severity of COVID-19, it also demonstrates the necessity to continue raising public awareness on measures to prevent the spread of the virus. For example, many people are still not conscious of the need to respect physical distancing. UNICEF will further support the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in the framework of the Sakta Campaign to disseminate accurate information on COVID-19 in the public and foster adherence to safety measures,” says Christine Jaulmes, UNICEF Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
Regarding the knowledge of symptoms, 98% of respondents know at least one symptom related to COVID-19, mostly increased body temperature, but only half of the population is aware of dry cough, and fewer are aware of the rest of symptoms. Important differences are noted according to region. While in Bishkek 73% of the population mention loss of smell and taste, only 18% do in in Talas.
UNICEF will continue supporting the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in the response to the COVID-19 pandemic by providing essential supplies to support those working on the frontlines of the response, as well as supporting the overall welfare of every woman, child and family. In addition, UNICEF is committed to supporting the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic with the response to COVID-19 through the global COVAX facility. Together with the Ministry of Health and GAVI, UNICEF is working on a supply chain sizing tool and demand generation workplan to ensure the country is ready to receive and disseminate WHO prequalified COVID-19 vaccines and COVID-19 vaccines approved for emergency use by WHO.
Full survey can be accessed here.
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/114134-unicef-only-40-population-kyrgyz-republic-aware-need-respecting-physical-distance-avoid




Date: 23 February 2021
Title: UNCT Presents COVID-19 Socio-Economic Response Framework to Vice Prime Minister
Content: 23 February 2021
On 18 February 2021, the UN Country Team, led by UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo, presented the COVID-19 Socio-Economic Response Framework (SERF) to Vice Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic Artem Novikov and representatives of the government ministries.
In his opening remarks, UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo gave a brief overview of how the UN supports the national development agenda through its five-year UN Development Assistance Frameworks (UNDAF). The current UNDAF was signed with the Government in 2017 for the period of 2018 and 2022, covering four thematic areas, and seeks to demonstrate how the UN System can support the Government in realizing the national development strategies through a whole-of-government and a whole-of-society approach to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and ensure that no one in the Kyrgyz Republic is left behind. The UN committed in 2017 that by the end of 2021 it would try to mobilize 221.1 million USD as the UN contribution to the development in the Kyrgyz Republic.
UNRC informed about the ongoing consultations with the line ministries on UNDAF Joint Work Plans (JWPs) for 2021 and 2022 and said he looks forward to having a meeting of the UNDAF Steering Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister and him, in March 2021 to present the results of the collective achievements in 2020 and the 2021-2022 JWPs.
UNRC shared the key results of the collective efforts in responding to COVID-19 in 2020, through the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU), chaired by the Minister of Emergency Situations and UNRC.
“The COVID-19 pandemic was much more than a health crisis. It was a development crisis which cast a dark shadow on the future of the society. From the outset of the pandemic, at the request of the Government, we mobilized the entire UN system and international development community first on the health response, because of the live saving humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable and subsequently in terms of COVID-19 response through our DRCU,” UNRC stated.
DRCU was established in 2008 as a vehicle for the international humanitarian actors to respond to disasters. Members of the DRCU developed a plan of action on early recovery, health, education, food security and logistics, protection, water, sanitation hygiene and non-food items. DRCU mobilized about 75 million USD for the support to national institutions in the immediate COVID-19 response. The phase of humanitarian response to COVID-19 pandemic under DRCU coordination and response had been completed, and the DRCU would continue activities according to its core mandate and role: emergency preparedness and response.
UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo shared the key results of DRCU work in 2020 (Please read the DRCU Annual Report):
UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo briefed that the UN Country Team has developed country-tailored COVID-19 Socio-Economic Response Framework (SERF) that represents an integrated support package that the UN system can leverage to protect the needs and rights of people impacted by the pandemic, with particular focus on people at the risk of being left behind. The SERF is guided by the UN framework for immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19 that was launched by UN Secretary-General in April 2020.
“Long-term transformative recovery process that leads to a better post-COVID-19 world by addressing underlying fragilities and identifying opportunities for transformative change towards more equal and resilient societies and economies is another overarching component of UN support. We all understand that emerging from the crisis is another opportunity, instead of going back to unsustainable systems and approaches, to build forward better and address global threats of climate change, inequalities, exclusion, gaps in social protections systems and many other injustices that have been exposed and exacerbated,” Ozonnia Ojielo stated.
The COVID-19 framework fits an overall UN programmatic response in the Country and is an integral part of the current UNDAF 2018-22 that is now being translated into the Joint Work Plans for 2021-22. Initial consultations on the Framework took place with state partners on 24th August 2020 on greater alignment of the Framework with the national priorities. The UN-ADB Socioeconomic and Vulnerability Impact Assessment and Policy Response laid an analytical foundation for the Framework. The total estimation of the Framework response is around 105 mln. USD, and while approximately 50% of that budget has already been secured by repurposing current programmes and mobilising new funding through UN global windows and international development partners, additional funds are yet to be mobilized.
Following the presentation of each five pillar of the SERF – Health First, Protecting People, Economic Response and Recovery, Macroeconomic Response and Multilateral Collaboration, Social Cohesion and Community Resilience, the UN Country Team and the Vice Prime Minister agreed to have a technical level discussion in March 2021 to translate ideas into specific activities in the UNDAF JWPs in line with the government priorities for the COVID-19 response and recovery.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/113213-unct-presents-covid-19-socio-economic-response-framework-vice-prime-minister




Date: 17 February 2021
Title: UNHCR supports enhancing referral mechanisms for refugees and asylum seekers in Kyrgyzstan during COVID-19
Content: 17 February 2021
On 17 February, the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) handed over 33 information stands to the State Border Service as part of the ongoing cooperation to enhance referral mechanisms and ensure protection and preserve the rights of refugees and asylum-seekers in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“UNHCR remains committed to work with the government of Kyrgyzstan to protect and assist those forced to flee in line with the humanitarian principles. Principles, which the pandemic has only highlighted and which are at the heart of the Global Compact on Refugees: a spirit of solidarity to work together, share responsibilities , and ensure  that people forced to flee are included in national responses. We remain available to seek solutions – together – in a spirit of collaboration and constructive partnership”, said Hans Friedrich Schodder, UNHCR Representative for Central Asia.
“The Border Service of the Kyrgyz Republic actively cooperates with UNHCR office in the Kyrgyz Republic in various directions. In particular, in the field of institutional development – on the reception of refugees upon their arrival at the border; as well as in the field of legal counselling of persons crossing the state border ”, – stressed the Director of BS SNSC KR Ularbek Sharsheev.
The State Border Service will distribute the information stands for installation at border entry points. The information stands include refugee related legislation and addresses of UNHCR, the State Migration Service and legal NGO so that border guards can refer any potential asylum-seekers to a relevant authority.
In 2020 UNHCR with support from Government of Japan also provided the State Border Service with protective personal equipment for 1,470 border officials at 18 border check points to enable them to deliver their services while protecting their and public health during the pandemic. Since it opened offices in Bishkek in 1996, the UN Refugee Agency has supported the Government and people of the Kyrgyz Republic with aid at the value of over US$ 60 million.
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
Kazybayeva Ayana, National Administrative Adviser, UNHCR in the Kyrgyz Republic, email: kazybaev@unhcr.org, contact phone +996 775 98 73 73.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/112382-unhcr-supports-enhancing-referral-mechanisms-refugees-and-asylum-seekers-kyrgyzstan-during




Date: 16 February 2021
Title: DRCU Annual Progress Report presented
Content: 16 February 2021
On 16 February 2021, the council of the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU), co-chaired by Minister of Emergency Situations and the UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic, gathered in Bishkek to discuss the results of the COVID-19 Response and Early Recovery Plan for the period of March – December 2020.
In his welcome words, Minister of Emergency Situations Boobek Ajikeev thanked the international partners for the support in the COVID-19 response and noted the importance of further improving coordination and monitoring of the collective efforts.
Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Representative, who spoke on behalf of the UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo, noted the COVID-19 Response and Early Recovery Plan was endorsed by the Government in June 2020. Through this plan the DRCU prioritized and leveraged a comprehensive support across six priority sectors Education, Food Security and Logistics, Health, Protection, Water Sanitation and Hygiene, and Non-Food Items, Early Recovery. Mr Bagnoli noted that the sector approach helped to ensure coherent and effective response, avoid duplication for the mobilization of the government and international organizations, UN Agencies, Programmes and Funds, NGOs to respond and leverage in the strategic manner that closes gap, increase predictability, strengthen capacity of humanitarian actors across all key areas of humanitarian activity and emergency. Together we were able to mobilize about 74 million USD.
DRCU response to the pandemic was completed and the rest of the activities were transferred to the annual plan of the organizations and the UN join work plan. DRCU will continue to monitor the situation and work to ensure preparedness and immediate response in case of need. Mr Bagnoli thanked the Government, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and other ministries, DRCU sector leads, including ACTED, UNDP, UNICEF, UNFPA, the Kyrgyz Red Crescent Society, FAO, WFP, OHCHR.
The sector leads presented the key achievements, key challenges as well as lessons learnt. Please read the full report here.
The DRCU was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. The DRCU was established in 2008 to enhance cooperation and coordination between the Government, UN, Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and other key actors for adequate and effective humanitarian response to emergency situations.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/112605-drcu-annual-progress-report-presented




Date: 15 February 2021
Title: Bishkek steps up action on disaster resilience
Content: 15 February 2021
Bishkek, 12 February 2021 - Today, Bishkek city in the Kyrgyz Republic has committed to strengthening resilience to disasters. Action is underway to develop a comprehensive plan of action to reduce risk. The move marks an important step forward for accelerating urban resilience in the capital city at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic crisis and increasing climate change impacts have made clear the need for ensuring disaster resilience.
“The EU welcomes the commitment of the city of Bishkek to the principles of Making Cities Resilient 2030 initiative. As losses associated with natural events continue to increase, the decisions that the city is making now about investments, infrastructure and land use are vital for increasing disaster and climate resilience in the long run”, said Charlotte Adriaen, Head of Cooperation at the European Union Delegation to Kyrgyzstan.
“The city of Bishkek gives high importance to the joining to the Making Cities Resilient 2030 Initiative. Urbanization is accelerating, and population of cities grows fast. We as the capital city municipal team should ensure safety of each resident of Bishkek”, stated vice-mayor of Bishkek Ruslanbek Akylbekov. On this occasion, the Mayor of Bishkek confirmed the city’s membership and its commitment to the principles of the Making Cities Resilient 2030 global initiative (MCR) in strengthening resilience at the local level.
"The city of Bishkek's membership to the global Making Cities Resilient 2030 initiative marks an important commitment made by the Mayor of Bishkek to ensure resilient development and safety of the city and its population. The presence and contribution at today's workshop of the city of Chisinau, capital of Moldova, is a perfect illustration of the city-to-city peer learning central to the MCR2030 initiative,” said Andrew Bower, Programme Officer at UNDRR’s Regional Office for Europe and Central Asia.
The city of Bishkek was joined in the meeting by city of Chisinau, capital city of Moldova, to share experiences in building urban resilience to disasters. Both Bishkek and Chisinau are among the first major cities to have joined the global Making Cities Resilient 2030 initiative.
Background information
The EU-funded project “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia”, implemented by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), aims to support countries of the region in implementing Sendai Framework priorities. The project includes support for developing resilience strategies in the capital cities of the countries of the region, through building the capacity of city administration to assess, analyze, and identify priority needs in reducing the risk of disasters on city level.
For additional information please contact:
Ms. Yerkezhan Amriyeva, Press Officer, Delegation of the European Union to the Republic of Kazakhstan, e-mail: Yerkezhan.AMRIYEVA@eeas.europa.eu
Mr. Abdurahim Muhidov, UNDRR Regional Programme Coordinator, email: muhidov@un.org

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/111920-bishkek-steps-action-disaster-resilience




Date: 10 February 2021
Title: Rome-based Agencies join efforts in Kyrgyzstan to act as one in food security and nutrition related issues
Content: 10 February 2021
The three UN agencies (FAO, IFAD and WFP) met to set milestones for achieving Food Security in Kyrgyzstan and discuss Agenda 2030 in the last decade of actions.
The UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and the World Food Programme (WFP) gathered around a table to discuss joint plans and share knowledge, financial and technical expertise towards sustainable development of Kyrgyzstan.
“Today, joining common efforts is extremely important. Global turmoil and a rapidly changing world dictates its own rules, saying that enhancing the collaboration, coordination and synergies between the three agencies may be crucial in achieving access to adequate nutrition for all at country level”, - said Adnan Quereshi, FAO Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“The three agencies will continue to promote new strategies, programs and activities that are consistent with our mandates, comparative advantages and distinctive strengths as a means of increasing effectiveness and impact in achieving SDG 2 and broader 2030 Agenda. Delivering as one is an opportunity for the FAO, WFP and IFAD to draw on their comparative advantages to support government efforts to ensure food security and nutrition of all people in Kyrgyzstan”, – remarked Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“Being here today, as an integral part of the RBAs retreat in Kyrgyzstan, strongly confirms how complementary We, the ‘Sister Agencies’, are and how more efficient we can still be, knowing who does what, intertwining our respective strengths and expertise in the field. In a time of UN Reforms, it is even more relevant to gather, reflect about how we operate, and seek for improved collaboration.“  – reacted Samir Bejaoui, IFAD Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Joint workplan of the Rome-based Agencies is important to achieving SDG 2, which lies at the heart of their respective mandates. During the meeting the three agencies shared a common vision on promoting food security and nutrition, sustainable agriculture and rural transformation, with a particular focus on smallholder farmers – women, men, and youth, leaving no one behind.
During the two days, participants have discussed and agreed on areas of complementarity among the three agencies in terms of field operations and resources. They have also explored avenues for combined efforts such as policy dialogue at country level in order to advance on agenda for mainstreaming crosscutting issues of gender, nutrition and climate change. A plan of actions was developed as way forward.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/111305-rome-based-agencies-join-efforts-kyrgyzstan-act-one-food-security-and-nutrition-related




Date: 09 February 2021
Title: Over 4 tonnes of medical supplies delivered to Kyrgyzstan to strengthen COVID-19 response and save lives
Content: 09 February 2021
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan – WHO, with financial support from the UK Government and UN COVID-19 Response & Recovery Multi-Partner Trust Fund, delivered over 4 tonnes of medical supplies to Kyrgyzstan to support the government’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The delivery included essential medical supplies and devices, that is, items such as medicaments and blood glucose meters, as well as BiPAP machines.
Supplies will be distributed to national medical organizations in the country in line with priorities and needs. All these materials meet WHO quality and safety standards to keep frontline health care workers and patients safe and prevent the spread of COVID-19.
During the handover ceremony, Alymkadyr Beishenaliev Minister of Health expressed his gratitude to the UN representatives and British ambassador for supporting and strengthening response against COVID-19 in the country.
The British Ambassador to Kyrgyzstan, Charles Garrett, noted that the pandemic demonstrated that cooperation between the UK and Kyrgyzstan is flexible and multilateral. "We are pleased with our effective cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Kyrgyz Republic and other national partners involved in the response to COVID-19. I would also like to note that Kyrgyzstan, as a member of the COVAX Mechanism under the Gavi Alliance, will be able to receive more than half a million doses of vaccines developed by the University of Oxford together with the British-Swedish pharmaceutical Company AstraZeneca. Moreover, a scientist from Kyrgyzstan, Asel Sartbaeva, has made a huge contribution to the development of vaccine data storage. In my opinion, this is a good British-Kyrgyz collaboration, " Charles Garrett concluded.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan Ozonnia Ojielo and Nazira Artykova, WHO Representative to Kyrgyzstan, emphasized that UN remains a committed partner for Kyrgyzstan supporting governmental efforts to strengthen preparedness and response for COVID-19 and beyond.
The cargo was shipped from the WHO regional logistics hub in Dubai, with the cost of more than 260,000 USD.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/111110-over-4-tonnes-medical-supplies-delivered-kyrgyzstan-strengthen-covid-19-response-and-save




Date: 05 February 2021
Title: Switzerland supports people in needs in Kyrgyzstan to overcome hardships caused by COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 05 February 2021
The Swiss Government has allocated CHF 2.5 million to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), in support of the vulnerable people severely affected by the socio-economic impact of the pandemic in Kyrgyzstan.
The funds will be used to support 80,000 people living in poverty. They will receive cash assistance in urban areas, with a possibility to participate in creating community assets and skills trainings for better job prospects and enhanced income opportunities. This approach will ensure that not only assistance is extended to the people whose livelihoods were impacted by the Pandemic adverse effects, but also give appropriate tools to make them better prepared and resilient to the future stresses.
WFP in partnership with the Ministry of Labour and Social Development will prioritize poor families who have lost their incomes and are forced to deplete family assets to meet their basic food needs and reduce expenses for other essential services.
“The Swiss Government and people of Switzerland are proud to stand together with Kyrgyzstan in supporting the most vulnerable people who are hit by the COVID-19 crises,” said Ambassador of Switzerland to the Kyrgyz Republic Véronique Hulmann. “Our partnership with WFP will support poorest families to sustain their livelihood through these difficult times.”
“Thanks to the generous contribution from the Government of Switzerland, WFP is able to provide cash assistance to food insecure people in the urban and semi-urban areas giving them the freedom of choice with the added value of creating demand in the local markets” - remarked Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Country Director for the Kyrgyz Republic.
In April 2020, as an immediate response, Switzerland through WFP had already allocated CHF 200’000 to support social inpatient institutions and boarding schools across the country, benefiting more than 3’000 people (orphans, elderly and people with disabilities) for three months.
#   #   #
The Government of Switzerland provides assistance for the development of the Kyrgyz Republic to improve the well-being of the population. Over the last 25 years Switzerland has granted more than CHF 450 million to Kyrgyzstan in the form of technical, financial and humanitarian support.
For more information, please visit https://www.eda.admin.ch/bishkek.
Follow us on www.facebook.com/SwissEmbassyKyrgyzstan

The United Nations World Food Programme is saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development. WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/110687-switzerland-supports-people-needs-kyrgyzstan-overcome-hardships-caused-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 28 January 2021
Title: FAO assists Kyrgyzstan in managing food safety in fruit and vegetable sector
Content: 28 January 2021
The 2021 International Year of Fruits and Vegetables started for Kyrgyzstan with the launch of a new FAO project on improving food safety management in the Kyrgyz fruit and vegetable sector, implemented in close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Melioration, and Association of Fruit and Vegetable Enterprises (AFVE), whose members are among the direct beneficiaries of the project.
Funded by the Standards and Trade Development Facility (STDF), the project aims to support the implementation of  globally accepted, modern risk based food safety management systems in fruit and vegetable production and processing. Adoption of these systems enables the local producers ensure the safety of their products, and increase access to domestic and international markets, mainly the members of Eurasian Economic Union; hence, improving the livelihoods of more than 400 000 smallholder farmers.
“Food and agriculture plays a vital role in sustainable development, where huge economic potential is concentrated,” said Adnan Quereshi, FAO Representative in Kyrgyzstan. “The project will have a positive impact on development of fruit and vegetable sector and will provide an impetus to increase sales of Kyrgyz fruit and vegetables, which will ultimately lead to an increase in the profitability of small farms and processors in connection with the improvement of the fruit and vegetable industry.”
In December 2020, FAO organized a virtual inception workshop with the participation of relevant stakeholder representatives from the public authorities, producer associations, academia and food businesses. During the meeting, Dilbara Alimzhanova, Director of AFVE, explained that the producers are facing difficulties in accessing the domestic and export markets due to non-compliance with the requested food safety requirements.  The reasons include amongst others, the limited financial and technical capacities, lack of technical expertise and guidance, and outdated inspection system.
Representatives of the Ministries who are responsible for the official food controls in the country, namely, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Chemicalisation and Plant Protection; Ministry of Health, Department of State Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance; Ministry of Economy, Centre for Standardisation and Metrology, shared their roles, relevancy of the project with the current needs, and the observed impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the sector. The FAO project team informed the participants of the project activities that aim to address the challenges described and called for collaboration throughout the project.
“Within the framework of this project, a standardized training system will be created to build capacities  on internationally accepted risk based food safety management systems (including Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP), Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), and Good Hygiene Practices (GHP) and Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). In addition, technical knowledge of the relevant competent authority staff will be enhanced on conducting risk-based inspection and analysis and revising audit procedures.” said Mary Kenny, FAO Food Safety and Consumer Protection Officer.
In addition the project will help to increase share of domestic and international markets for Kyrgyz fruit and vegetable products and improve food security in Kyrgyzstan by contributing to a healthy diet through promoting and improving the quality of fruits and vegetables and lastly, promote reduction of, among others, non-communicable diseases, overweight, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/109541-fao-assists-kyrgyzstan-managing-food-safety-fruit-and-vegetable-sector




Date: 27 January 2021
Title: United Nations Peacebuilding Fund Supports Rehabilitation Programs in Prisons of Kyrgyzstan
Content: 27 January 2021
The United Nations Peacebuilding Fund (PBF), together with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and United Nations Development Program (UNDP), is providing support to the State Prison Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to develop and promote comprehensive prison rehabilitation programme. The activities under the rehabilitation programme range from providing psychological and social service, promoting educational and sports events, enhancing vocational skills and employment opportunities, and enhancing access to legal assistance. The program is designed to contribute to reduce vulnerability to violent extremism, prevent radicalization to violence in prisons and probation settings.
As part of an effort to improve the rehabilitation programme's effectiveness, the PBF has supported the establishment of a Call Centre in the State Prison Service to increase access to information for the prisoners and their families. The Call Centre receives about 50 phone calls and about 20 peer visits every day. The specialists of the Centre provide any prison-related information, including legal aid to prisoners’ family members, defence advocates and society. Five employees of the State Prison Service are engaged in providing the services which allows the prisoners get related information in time.
The Center promotes regular communication between prisoners and their families by providing relevant information, organizing visits or passing messages to a prisoner, etc. The Center's specialists also provide legal advice to family members and their representatives. The center acts as a bridge between prisoners and the public.
More broadly, the Project promotes implementation of the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (“the Nelson Mandela Rules”) and the United Nations Rules for the Treatment of Women Prisoners and Non-custodial Measures for Women Offenders ('the Bangkok Rules') with particular attention for prison management in full compliance with international human rights norms and standards, including the rights to freedom of movement, freedom of expression and privacy, gender equality and the principle of non-discrimination.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/110436-united-nations-peacebuilding-fund-supports-rehabilitation-programs-prisons-kyrgyzstan




Date: 15 December 2020
Title: FAO and IFAD join forces to develop e-agriculture in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 15 December 2020
FAO Representative in Kyrgyzstan, Adnan Quereshi and IFAD Country Director Samir Bejaoui signed a Partnership Agreement, which will be an important initial step in the development of e-agriculture in Kyrgyzstan.
While strengthening collaboration, FAO and IFAD will cooperate for the benefit of the Kyrgyz people supported by FAO's strength in agriculture, food security and natural resource management, and IFAD's ability to strategically engage politically and provide critical financing for developing countries.
“I am delighted to sign this agreement with IFAD, which is groundbreaking in the Kyrgyz Republic, signaling the beginning of a close collaboration between FAO and IFAD”, - said Adnan Quereshi, FAO Representative in Kyrgyzstan.“ This will be the start of our support to the development of the National Strategy for the Digitalisation of Agriculture.”
This general step will help to maximize each Rome-based agency's expertise and comparative advantage so their combined efforts better serve the Kyrgyzstan and its people.
“IFAD is delighted to materialize this first step towards the development of a National Strategy on Digital Agriculture and Food System under the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Melioration of the Kyrgyz Republic”, -  commented Samir Bejaoui, IFAD Country Director for the Kyrgyz Republic. “This partnership IFAD/FAO will pave the way to a clear Action Plan which, guided by the Kyrgyz Government, will involve strategic Development Partners towards an inclusive Strategy to accompany the Agricultural sector and Rural Transformation in the country, supported by the New Information and Communication Technologies which already proved successful in the country as well as the sub-region.”
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/105279-fao-and-ifad-join-forces-develop-e-agriculture-kyrgyzstan




Date: 11 December 2020
Title: Central Asian countries continue to strengthen coordination on disaster risk reduction
Content: 11 December 2020
Bishkek, 11 December 2020 - Today, in the frame of the European Union funded Program “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia”, implemented by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), the Center for Emergency Situations and Disaster Risk Reduction (CESDRR) organized the Forum – Consultative Meeting of heads of national emergency management agencies (NDMAs) of the countries of Central Asia.
In the annual meeting, the delegations of the countries analyzed the implementation of the Action Plan (Roadmap) for the implementation of the Framework for strengthening regional cooperation of Central Asian countries in the field of DRR and emergency situations in 2019-2021 adopted by the 2019 Regional Forum - Meeting of Heads of NDMAs. The national delegations reiterated the importance of preparedness for the new emerging threats such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and reiterated the value of exchange of information and experience in building capacity for reducing the possible losses.
The program of the Forum included presentation of the first draft of the Regional Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction, developed by CESDRR within the EU-funded Initiative. The strategy, aiming at reducing risk of cross-border scale and nature, calls for better exchange of information, joint risk assessment, building capacity of emergency management organizations, raising awareness of the existing and possible new hazards.
“We realize the importance of resilience at all levels, the importance of a strategy for regional cooperation, because not a single country can protect its population all by itself from the pandemic or from other threats”, stated Boobek Azhikeyev, Minister of Emergency Situations of Kyrgyz Republic.
“It is inspiring to see how Central Asia countries come together to share experiences, lessons learned and good practices. Just recently, in September this year, all five countries met to share experience and to coordinate actions for overcoming the COVID-19, together with international organizations. The work of the CESDRR is another concrete example of these critical efforts’, said Mr. Octavian Bivol Chief Regional Office for Europe, UNDRR.  “Next year is an important one for Member States for developing a resilient, green recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, strengthening risk reduction initiatives, and improving governance. Disaster risk reduction is an investment to ensure that “never again” will we suffer such devastating consequences, whether from a biological hazard like COVID-19 or climate change.
“Strengthening resilience to potential natural disasters at all levels, from community to governments, has been an essential part of European Union’s disaster risk reduction efforts in Central Asia. Since 2003, European Commission’s Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection department (ECHO) has continuously implemented activities under its disaster preparedness program known as DIPECHO. Over the years, with a total of approximately 47 mln Euro and more than 110 projects, DIPECHO managed to promote DRR in Central Asian countries.”  - said Johannes Madsen, Head of Cooperation in Central Asia.
The Regional Forum adopted the outcome document, resolving to: acknowledge the information on the activities in disaster risk reduction in the region; further consolidate and enhance regional coordination; review the draft Regional Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction for 2022 – 2030 and the draft Regional Risk Profile and contribute in their finalization. Central Asian states expressed willingness to work together in order to strengthen risk reduction governance and to reduce existing and future risks.
The Regional Forum brought together National Emergency Management Organizations, Sendai Focal Points, international organizations working in the area of emergency response and risk reduction, representatives of the European Union and UN system organizations.
Background information
The EU funded project “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia”, implemented by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), aims to support countries of the region in implementing Sendai Framework priorities. The project supports strengthening regional coordination, including development of regional DRR strategy, regional data loss database, and enhancing the role of CESDRR as the center of excellence, the secretariat of regional platform for DRR, and a hub for regional coordination. The support on national level includes assistance in developing/adjusting national DRR strategies, disaster loss database, and establishment of national platforms for DRR. On the local level, the project will support assessment of resilience of major cities to disasters. For this project the EU committed EURO 3,750,000 for the three yeas implementation.
For additional information please contact
Ms. Gulnara Dussupova Programme Officer, Delegation of the European Union to the Republic of Kazakhstan, at: gulnara.dussupova@eeas.europa.eu
Mr. Abdurahim Muhidov, UNDRR Regional Programme Coordinator, email: muhidov@un.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/105476-central-asian-countries-continue-strengthen-coordination-disaster-risk-reduction




Date: 08 December 2020
Title: EU-UN flagship Spotlight Initiative to be launched for Central Asia and Afghanistan
Content: 08 December 2020
On 8 December 2020, at 3 pm (Nur-Sultan time) the Spotlight Initiative Regional Programme for Central Asia and Afghanistan will be officially launched and bring together dignitaries and senior leadership of the European Union and the United Nations, governments of Central Asia and Afghanistan and envoys of women’s movements to give a start to the programme designed to deliver on gender equality commitments. The Initiative is the EU-funded programme with an initial budget of more than USD 4.3 million for Central Asia and Afghanistan.
In Central Asia and Afghanistan, the ultimate goal of the Spotlight Programme is to create an environment where there is zero tolerance for sexual and gender-based violence and harmful practices, which the national stakeholders and around 35 million women and girls in the five Central Asian countries and Afghanistan will contribute to and benefit from.
Spotlight Initiative is the world’s largest dedicated effort to end all forms of violence against women and girls by 2030, implemented as a global multi-year partnership between the EU and the UN. The Spotlight Initiative is currently on the ground in more than 25 countries and regions across the globe. Each Spotlight Initiative country and regional programme is tailor-made to address specific legislative and policy gaps, strengthen institutions, promote gender-equitable attitudes, provide quality services for survivors and empower women’s movements, leaving no one behind.
Through the Spotlight Initiative Regional Programme for Central Asia and Afghanistan we are determined to enrich one of the most comprehensive global policy frameworks for the rights of women, known as Beijing Declaration and the Platform of Action, with innovative approaches and modalities, collective expertise and accumulated knowledge for the benefit of most vulnerable groups.
Note for the editors:
Date and time: 8 December 2020, 15:00-16:00 (Nur-Sultan time)
Registration and direct access to the event available via the link below:
https://us02web.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_BKuEAeoETlWd3nuUkpUnLg
Webinar ID 845 8268 3825
Webinar Passcode 999055
The event will be also LIVE streamed on UN in Kazakhstan social media pages:
https://www.facebook.com/uninkazakhstan
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNB72oezAK-u2NiJLe-lFMg?view_as=subscriber
More information about the Spotlight Initiative: https://www.spotlightinitiative.org
For more details please contact:
tel: +7 701 9400086, e-mail: elnara.bainazarova@un.org,
tel: +7 775 6730823, e-mail: yerkezhan.amriyeva@eeas.europa.eu
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/104075-eu-un-flagship-spotlight-initiative-be-launched-central-asia-and-afghanistan




Date: 04 December 2020
Title: UN Resident Coordinator met with Minister of Foreign Affairs
Content: 04 December 2020
On 4 December, 2020, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic Ozonnia Ojielo met with Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic Ruslan Kazakbaev and discussed the current political situation, including the planned constitutional reforms, and how the UN could support the reform process in line with Kyrgyzstan’s international commitments.
Minister of Foreign Affairs Ruslan Kazakbaev informed about the upcoming events, including the referendum on the form of governance, constitutional changes, as well presidential and parliamentary elections and requested a technical support in their implementation. The Minister Kazakbaev noted that the government would continue to observe its international commitments on human rights, rule of law, and strengthening democracy during the process of constitutional changes.
UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo stated that the development of the new Constitution is the sovereign right of the people and government of Kyrgyzstan and underscored the importance of strengthening the fundamental values including human rights and freedoms as the core principles of the new Constitution. The UN Resident Coordinator noted the efforts to widely engage the public in the constitutional discussions and achieve consensus. The UN Resident Coordinator noted the readiness of the UN to help improve the quality of the documents drafted as part of the constitutional review process by tapping on international expertise and resources of the UN.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/104285-un-resident-coordinator-met-minister-foreign-affairs




Date: 02 December 2020
Title: Kyrgyz Republic plans the implementation of the “DesInventar-Sendai” system software for disaster risk reduction
Content: 02 December 2020
The United Nations office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), in collaboration with the CIMA Research Foundation and the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center (ADPC) organized the online two-day workshop on November 12th-13th on the use of “DesInventar-Sendai” system software for the systematic collection, analysis and reporting of data related to disaster losses. The support for the establishment of a mechanism for accounting the damage and losses resulting from disasters is part of the UNDRR Initiative “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia 2019-2022” funded by the European Union.
The goal of the national workshop was to demonstrate the functions of the “DesInventar-Sendai” software and its use for the systematic collection, documentation and analysis of data related to disaster losses and to facilitate national reporting on the targets of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. Representatives of UNDRR, experts from the CIMA Research Foundation and ADPC presented the implementation steps, recommendations and technical details to the technical working group consisting of experts from the Ministry of Emergency Situations, National Statistical Committee, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Land Reclamation of the Kyrgyz Republic, State Agency for Environmental Protection and Forestry under the Government of Kyrgyz Republic, State Committee for Industry, Energy and Subsoil Use of the Kyrgyz Republic, Institute of Seismology of the National Academy of Sciences of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The participants reviewed and discussed the existing national system for collecting and analyzing data on disaster losses, its strengths and areas for improvement. Each ministry analyzed its role as contributing agency and highlighted the opportunities and challenges in data collection process.
Experts from the CIMA Research Foundation demonstrated the customization process of the “DesInventar Sendai” software configuration. The workshop program included discussion on adaptation of the “DesInventar-Sendai” data card to the national data collection form for losses and adding appropriate indicators and disaggregation categories.
The implementation of the “DesInventar Sendai” system software has helped more than 90 countries worldwide to develop sustainable disaster information management systems aligned with the Sendai Framework monitoring process. The system allows to analyze disaster trends and impacts through a large range of sectoral and socio-economical dimensions. As a main benefit, the “DesInventar Sendai” system supports a dialogue on risk management and disaster risk reduction planning between all stakeholders from the local to the regional level.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/103301-kyrgyz-republic-plans-implementation-%E2%80%9Cdesinventar-sendai%E2%80%9D-system-software-disaster-risk




Date: 02 December 2020
Title: Meeting of UN Resident Coordinator with Acting Prime Minister
Content: 02 December 2020
On 2 December, 2020, UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo met with Acting Prime Minister, First Vice Prime Minister Artyom Novikov.
The Acting Prime Minister expressed gratitude for the United Nation’s support to the efforts of the Kyrgyz Republic to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 and to address the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. He thanked the UN for the assistance in the areas of electoral process, water supply and irrigation, as well as strengthening the environmental agenda in the country.
Acting Prime Minister confirmed the commitments of the Government to fulfil its international obligations in line with the UN Charter, including through conducting transparent and inclusive elections in accordance with the international best practices. He noted that the COVID-19 response, socio-economic stabilizations, and reforms remain as important priorities for the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo and the Acting Prime Minister Artyom Novikov also discussed plans for the economic governance and public administration reforms potentially benefitting from international expertise. They exchanged ideas on the implementation of a range of commitments of the Government, agreed upon including as part of the Development Partners Coordination Council (DPCC) in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The UN Resident Coordinator restated the UN’s commitment to supporting the government and the people of the Kyrgyz Republic in their national development agenda, and expressed confidence in continuous dialogue with the Government.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/103889-meeting-un-resident-coordinator-acting-prime-minister




Date: 30 November 2020
Title: Russian Federation helps World Food Programme to support poor families
Content: 30 November 2020
Bishkek – The Russian Federation contributed USD 8 million to the World Food Programme in Kyrgyzstan to support poor households. With funding from the Russian Federation, around 9,000 tons of food assistance will be distributed among families affected by the socioeconomic shocks caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Funding will provide vital support to poor and vulnerable families in many rural communities to improve their living conditions, train them in practical livelihood skills to empower them in finding better job opportunities, and increase their resilience and preparedness against emergencies. Climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction are key areas in improving community infrastructure.
The Russian contribution will provide support to 125,000 people from families living below the poverty line during the next two years. Families will receive food rations of fortified wheat flour and vegetable oil to meet their basic food needs and to cover the lean season gap in exchange for their participation in training activities (sewing, handicrafts making, beekeeping, cooking, etc.) or various community development projects to construct or rehabilitate local assets such as irrigation canals, drinking water systems and forested areas in targeted communities.
“WFP and many households in the country are grateful to the Russian Federation for its commitment to supporting Kyrgyzstan during this difficult period,” said Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Country Director for Kyrgyzstan. “This contribution will help us provide much-needed assistance to the poorest families affected by the socioeconomic shocks associated with the global pandemic, which has caused unemployment and reduced remittances from migrants.”
“Russia continues to actively help Kyrgyzstan to ensure food security of the population in rural and remote regions that are now even more vulnerable because of the global pandemic,” said Nikolay Udovichenko, Ambassador of the Russian Federation to Kyrgyzstan.
The Russian Federation is the largest donor to WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic, funding and providing broad technical and expert support. Since 2008, the Government of the Russian Federation has supported WFP's activities in the Kyrgyz Republic at various levels, from emergency operations, relief and recovery, development projects and to supporting poor households and schoolchildren.
During the pandemic, WFP, with the support of the Russian Federation, sustained its operations across the country and continued to support people who were most in need. WFP and the Russian Federation recommit their support to Kyrgyzstan to ensure food security for the country’s most vulnerable to recover from this difficult period in order to lead productive and healthy lives.
********
The United Nations World Food Programme – saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development.  WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future

Follow us on Facebook @WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/ and Instagram @wfp_kyrgyzstan
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/102997-russian-federation-helps-world-food-programme-support-poor-families




Date: 27 November 2020
Title: UN Country Team met with Minister of Foreign Affairs
Content: 27 November 2020
On 27 November, the UN Country Team, led by UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo, met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Ruslan Kazakbaev.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs acknowledged the UN assistance, especially in the areas of electoral processes, preparation of the Voluntary National Review in 2020, and response to the COVID-19 pandemic as part of the Disaster Response Cooperation Unit (DRCU). Minister of Foreign Affairs Ruslan Kazakbaev reaffirmed the Government’s commitment to honor all international treaties that the Kyrgyz Republic has signed.
UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo reassured of the UN’s commitment to uninterrupted development work for the Kyrgyz Republic and gave an overview of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) 2018-2022, with a budgetary outlay of $221 million, and how it aligns with the national priorities. He also underscored that the UN’s contributions include policy analysis and advice, research, specific projects and programs.
The UNRC added that in 2019, the UN had spent about $ 89 million as part of UNDAF, and the total budget for the implementation of DRCU COVID-19 Response and Recovery Plan equaled $67.4 million, while all the remaining DRCU activities have now been embedded into the UN’s Socio-economic Response Framework (SERF). For the SERF, the UN has mobilized $48 million, including repurposed funds by UN agencies, while $56 million is yet to be mobilized.
WHO Representative Nazira Artykova gave an overview of the situation with COVID-19 pandemic, WHO’s preparedness, as well as availability and logistical issues relating to COVID-19 vaccine.
UNDP Resident Representative Louise Chamberlain gave a brief overview of the SERF to COVID-19, elaborating on the five pillars of SERF and how they are connected by cross-cutting imperatives, e.g. environmental sustainability and gender equality to build back better. She noted that SERF is guided by the 2030 Agenda and will help in accelerating recovery of SDG gaps by steering the remaining two years of UNDAF.
The UNDP Resident Representative also discussed opportunities for the Kyrgyz Republic, as a signatory of the Paris Agreement and as it has prepared climate commitments known as Nationally Determined Contributions, to champion the cause of climate change in the lead-up to the Climate Conference (COP 26) in Glasgow in 2021. Both sides agreed to work together on building capacity for MFA and government agencies to include climate change policies and negotiations, and Kyrgyzstan’s participation in COP26.
OHCHR Representative Ryzsard Komenda reassured of the UN’s commitment to supporting the Government in implementation of the UN Conventions and Treaties on human rights that the Kyrgyzstan is signatory to, and its engagement with civil society for an open and transparent discussion, as well as the country’s participation at the Human Rights Council-Universal Period Review mechanism.
UN Women Representative Ulziisuren Jamsran briefed the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and how it could reverse the limited progress that has been made on gender equality and women’s rights. The Ministry of Internal Affairs reported a 65% increase in cases of gender-based violence (GBV) in the first 8 months of 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. She requested the Government to increase its attention to GBV issues, by also including Ministry of Labor and Social Development, civil society organizations and activists to represent the interest of GBV actors. She reminded the meeting of the start of 16 days of activism against GBV campaign and thanked the Government and Bishkek Mayor’s office for their support.
UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo also provided a brief information about the Peacebuilding Fund (PBF), through which Kyrgyzstan since 2010 received nearly $49 million to help strengthen social cohesion in conflict-prone regions and prevent violent extremism. The UNRC expressed a hope for Kyrgyzstan’s continued engagement with the PBF.
Minister of Foreign Affairs Ruslan Kazakbaev reassured that the constitutional reform process will be inclusive, and that the Government strives to comply with the human rights and gender obligations. The Minister noted the Government’s intention of considerable governance reforms and expressed hope for strengthened engagement with the UN across the reform areas. The Minister agreed to have bilateral meetings with UN agencies and develop roadmaps.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/104788-un-country-team-met-minister-foreign-affairs




Date: 26 November 2020
Title: The Embassy of the Russian Federation in the Kyrgyz Republic and the World Health Organization (WHO) handed over emergency medical kits to Kyrgyzstan
Content: 26 November 2020
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan - The Embassy of the Russian Federation in the Kyrgyz Republic and the World Health Organization (WHO) have donated emergency medical kits to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic.
This humanitarian aid is provided by the Russian Federation through the WHO and includes medical supplies and a specialized medical module to provide primary health care to the affected population in emergencies, such as earthquakes and flash floods.
The transferred cargo is enough for providing on site health care to 10,000 people for three months. Also, a special WHO injury and emergency surgery kit can provide materials and medicines to meet the needs of 50 patients, with 2 operations per patient (100 interventions) in need of surgery in emergencies.
The official handover ceremony of this humanitarian cargo was attended by the KR Deputy Minister of Health, WHO Representative to the KR, Russian Federation Minister Counselor to the KR and health care workers. The Deputy Minister of Health of the KR, Mr. Karataev has expressed gratitude to the Russian Federation and World Health Organization (WHO) for supporting and strengthening emergency preparedness in the country.
The representative of the Russian Federation Embassy has stressed the allied and strategic nature of the Russian-Kyrgyz relations, in which Moscow provides the republic with comprehensive and continuous assistance by the supply of medicines, PCR-tests, medical equipment, personal protective equipment as humanitarian cargo.
Mrs Nazira Artykova, WHO Representative to the Kyrgyz Republic, has emphasized the readiness to provide further support to Kyrgyzstan and noted the importance of strengthening emergency preparedness in the field of health care and implementation of international health regulations, which will help the country to respond effectively during emergencies.
The cargo was shipped from the WHO regional logistics hub in Dubai, with the total weigh exceeding 4 tons and cost of more than 42,000 USD.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/102479-embassy-russian-federation-kyrgyz-republic-and-world-health-organization-who-handed-over




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: 16-Days Campaign Against Gender-Based Violence Launches in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 25 November 2020
BISHKEK, 25 November 2020 - Today marks the kick-off of the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-based Violence campaign that calls for the prevention and elimination of violence against women and girls. The annually commemorated global campaign commences on November 25, the International Day of the Elimination of all Forms of Violence Against Women runs until December 10, International Human Rights Day.
16-Days campaign aims to break the silence over violence against women and girls and to step up the collective efforts to end all forms of discrimination. Women and girls worldwide and at home continue to experience violence and abuse that it is a serious challenge to realizing of human rights and sustainable development.
This year in Kyrgyzstan, the joint campaign focuses on three areas: advocating for “no silence” -culture to change social norms that reinforce harmful practice and gender-based violence; enhancing visibility of crisis centers and helplines to increase the responses to the cases of domestic violence, especially addressing the increased need of services during the COVID-19 crisis; and finally raising the general awareness on gender equality to strengthen the women’s participation in decision making.
“Gender stereotypes that are prevalent within security, police and justice institutions and culture remain significant barriers for the effective enforcement of laws and enable the public’s acceptance and non-shaming of violence. By creating broader discourses of GBV prevention and its importance, the campaign in Kyrgyzstan strives to initiate discussions on how to discourage and change social norms that reinforce harmful practices and VAWG”- The UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Ozonnia Ojielo
The UN and its partners in Kyrgyzstan work together towards a future where gender-based violence is no longer tolerated and all women and girls live free of all forms of violence and discrimination. The 16-Days campaign is part of the wider efforts to prevent and eliminate gender-based violence in Kyrgyzstan. In January 2020, in partnership with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, the EU and the UN launched a multi-year programme under the global Spotlight Initiative on eliminating all forms of violence against women and girls.
16 Days campaign 2020 in Kyrgyzstan, brought by the UN Agencies and its partners with support of the Spotlight Initiative, will take following actions to raise awareness of and to end the gender-based violence:
Let us unite to end the violence against women and girls and support the campaign by joining us to speak up against gender-based violence in the social media:
#OrangetheWorld #GenerationEquality #16Days
For further information and media inquiries, please contact:
Aiperi Alymbekova, The Spotlight Communications Coordinator
E: aalymbekova@unicef.org
Nargiz Koshoibekova, UN Women Country Office Communications Associate
E: nargiz.koshoibekova@unwomen.org
Chyntemir Kalbaev, UNDP Communications Assistant & Spotlight Initiative Communications Focal Point
E: Chyntemir.kalbaev@undp.org, 0775 76 76 05
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/102343-16-days-campaign-against-gender-based-violence-launches-kyrgyzstan




Date: 24 November 2020
Title: Competition between school cooks from all over the country was held in Bishkek
Content: 24 November 2020
BISHKEK – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in the Kyrgyz Republic, Ministry of Education and Social Industrial Food organized a competition for school cooks who were semifinalists of the school-cooks competitions conducted all over Kyrgyzstan last year. With all safety measures followed school cooks had a chance to show their culinary skills and compete for the title of the best school cook in Kyrgyzstan.
The cook’s competition was launched in November last year and was conducted in few phases: Qualifying - all school cafeterias who wished to send stories about how they came to their profession; Regional - 35 authors of the most unique and interesting stories came up with a recipe for a new dish for school meals; Final - 5 authors of the most original recipes with interesting performance became finalists. And on 20th November in the finals program, finalists will compete for the title of Best School Cook 2020.
The competitions like this is an opportunity to celebrate the work of school cooks who work tirelessly to feed children in schools and give cooks the chance to express themselves and show their skills in developing, preparing, and serving school meals, which will result in improving the professional skills of school cooks. The creativity of the tasty recipes cooked in the school canteen will foster a culture of eating different products like beans, eggplants, and pumpkins for children while promoting locally grown healthy and affordable products in schools.
“Through school meals, WFP invests in learners for the best outcomes of the learning process,” said WFP Kyrgyz Republic Country Director Andrea Bagnoli. “There is a lot of hard work behind hot meals - knowledge and experience of experts, parents’ involvement, government leadership, and of course the incomparable hard work of cooks. They approach their work creatively, caringly, with warmth in their hearts, with all their skill to ensure that children receive a healthy, nutritious, and delicious meal.”
The Cook’s competition also serves as an important aspect of the National School Meals Optimization Programme, which currently provides high-quality nutritious meals to around 200 000 primary school children in more than 700 schools across the country.
“Thanks to the hot and nutritious school meals, class attendance is increasing. Well-fed children perceive the taught material better; in the classroom, we can observe a keen interest in their eyes to new knowledge," - said the representative of the Ministry of Education.
Since 2013, in partnership with the UN World Food Program and the Russian Institute for Industry Nutrition with financial support from the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic has been conducting a program to improve nutrition in the country's schools. School meals optimization in the Kyrgyz Republic is a widely recognized initiative, which has been receiving critical support from national and local authorities, communities, and donors. By 2022, WFP and Kyrgyz Government plan to cover all schools in the country with nutritious hot meals, including through the adoption of the School Meals Law, a critical breakthrough in boosting the school meals development in the country.
********
The United Nations World Food Programme – saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development.  WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future
Follow us on Facebook @WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/ and Instagram @wfp_kyrgyzstan
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/102138-competition-between-school-cooks-all-over-country-was-held-bishkek




Date: 24 November 2020
Title: Presentation of the mobile application "Med Safety App" in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 24 November 2020
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan – within the framework of the World Antimicrobial Awareness Week, the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic presented the mobile application "Med Safety", as an international tool for ensuring the safety of medicines.
This mobile application was adapted into Kyrgyz and Russian languages by the Department of medicines and medical devices under the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic with technical support of WHO and the Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency of UK.
The mobile app is already actively used in many countries, and based on practice evidences, health workers, patients, medical representatives and pharmacy employees are extremely interested in this service and are ready for its daily use. This format of data transmission is more efficient and less time-consuming.
It is important that health care recipients, health care professionals, and medical professionals are aware of adverse side effects or reactions associated with medication use and report them to the national medicine’s regulatory authority.
Introduction and implementation of the "Med Safety" mobile application, developed for patients, health care professionals and medical professionals helps to provide information about adverse side effects of medicines to the medicine’s regulatory authority and track information regarding their safety.
In this regard, the mobile application is a convenient alternative to the previous paper format, which is easy in use for reporting adverse side effects of medications and tracking information about their safety.
The mobile application is very easy to use, everyone can download it for free to their mobile phone and send messages. The application is available on the AppStore and Google Play Market in Kyrgyz and Russian languages.
###
World Antimicrobial Awareness Week
World Antimicrobial Awareness Week (WAAW) aims to increase awareness of global antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and to encourage best practices among the general public, health workers and policy makers in order to prevent the further development and spread of AMR.
The idea of WAAW originates from the European Antibiotic Awareness Day, a European Union initiative that started in 2008, and which WHO/Europe joined in 2012, and extended to non-European Union countries. The first World Antibiotic Awareness Week was held in 2015 and became World Antimicrobial Awareness Week in 2020.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/102139-presentation-mobile-application-med-safety-app-kyrgyzstan




Date: 04 November 2020
Title: FAO discusses youth and employment for vibrant rural areas in Europe and Central Asia
Content: 04 November 2020
Almost one-third of people in Europe and Central Asia live in rural areas, and in many countries, farm structures are dominated by small family farms cultivating less than 5 ha each. Their resilience and strength are crucial not only for rural development, but also for providing nutritious produce from sustainable sources for the entire region.
As pointed out today during an event at the Thirty-second Session of the Regional Conference for Europe titled “Solutions for youth, employment and developing rural areas in relation to the United Nation’s Decade of Family Farming,” family farms face multiple challenges, including limited access to finance and modern technologies, low input quality and limited labour skills.
Although agriculture remains an essential building block of many economies in the region, people living in rural areas – especially women, youth and other disadvantaged groups – often face limited livelihood opportunities and lowered living and working conditions.
To broaden the conversations among partners, an analysis of the situation of smallholders, family farms and rural youth in agriculture was presented at the session, including a review of strategies that can potentially foster the revitalization of rural areas in the region.
FAO Members, civil society organizations, and members of the private sector acknowledged the potential of the United Nations Decade of Family Farming 2019–2028 to revitalize rural areas, with special attention on empowering rural people, particularly women and youth. Among the ways mentioned to help transform rural areas were strengthening rural services, bolstering rural infrastructure, ensuring that youth are included in decision-making processes, and encouraging youth entrepreneurship in rural areas. Members also were encouraged to give youth, as agents of change, a stronger voice on international platforms.
FAO has long advocated for more innovation and improved digital technologies as crucial factors for promoting modern sustainable agriculture and rural development.
“FAO’s assistance to its Members is rooted in the Sustainable Development Goals and the established national targets,” emphasized Raimund Jehle, FAO Regional Programme Leader.
Uzbekistan, the chair of the Thirty-second Session of the Regional Conference for Europe, is a strong supporter of increasing the share of youth in the agricultural sector. The country organized the International Forum of Young Farmers to widen their involvement in farming, and it has developed a network of science, education, information and consulting services to incorporate these areas into agricultural practices.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/98969-fao-discusses-youth-and-employment-vibrant-rural-areas-europe-and-central-asia




Date: 26 October 2020
Title: Children’s meals improve through new raspberry bushes in school gardens
Content: 26 October 2020
FAO is planting 10 000 raspberry seedlings at the Chui boarding school for orphans and children left without parental care.
This activity is a part under the continuing support of the FAO Russian-funded project “Developing capacity for strengthening food security and nutrition in selected countries of the Caucasus and Central Asia” to develop school gardens for improved nutrition on school children in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“The availability of tasty, safe, and nutritious food, supported by a healthy food environment is fundamental to better diets in schools,” said Adnan Quereshi, FAO Representative in Kyrgyzstan. “Given today's realities, we must strengthen their immune systems and raise healthy generations. Education on what comprises healthy diets and proper eating habits must start as soon as possible, from a young age.”
For planting, FAO chose a special raspberry variety called "Monomakh's cap". This raspberry fruit contains various useful elements, such as vitamin C and B, manganese, potassium, calcium, folic acid, magnesium, copper and iron, which, in turn, helps strengthen the immune system and have a positive effect on the full physical and mental development of children.
“This is not only a way to make school meals more nutritious and diverse, but it is also a good tool for the children to learn personal qualities, such as care, responsibility, and acquire horticultural skills while taking part in the maintenance of the school garden,” said Aisalkyn Oirotovna, Deputy Director for educational work.
Raspberries will give their first harvest in about two years and provide fruits throughout the entire year in the form of fresh raspberries, as well as preserved products (dried, frozen, cooked into jam).
FAO's work to improve school nutrition has been ongoing since 2017 and bear benefit with knowledge and techniques for years by bringing them to schools.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/97377-children%E2%80%99s-meals-improve-through-new-raspberry-bushes-school-gardens




Date: 20 October 2020
Title: Applications open for the SDG Youth Ambassadors Programme
Content: 20 October 2020
20 October 2020, Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic - The United Nations system in the Kyrgyz Republic together with the State Agency for Youth, Physical Culture and Sports (SAYPCS) announced a new call for applications under the SDGs Youth Ambassadors Programme.
Young people from all regions of the Kyrgyz Republic are invited to apply online to the Programme, which is designed to disseminate information about the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as well as help the country to fulfill its commitments to achieve the SDGs.
“For us the SDGs Youth Ambassadors Programme is another effective way to involve youth in decision-making,” said Azamat Baialinov, Office Head in the Kyrgyz Republic, UNFPA. “We’re looking for the most progressive young people in order to train and nurture them to work for the prosperity of the Kyrgyz Republic”.
According to the results of the first pilot Programme, young people from different regions were able to implement more than 173 major events and involve around 13 000 people in the implementation of the SDGs. In addition, they managed to participate in large political dialogues, work with various organisations and authorities, and also find new like-minded people and friends.
“The SDG Youth Ambassadors Programme is an international initiative. It’s been implemented for a while in neighbouring countries such as Russia, Belarus and Turkmenistan, which helps create another effective platform for youth to exchange experience and knowledge,” said Mirlan Parkhanov, SAYPCS Deputy Director .
For many active young people from the regions the Programme is an excellent opportunity to start off their own initiatives in the field of sustainable development and unlock their potential.
Applications are accepted until 8 November 2020. Detailed information can be found here.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/96396-applications-open-sdg-youth-ambassadors-programme




Date: 19 October 2020
Title: World Health Organization (WHO) provided over 1.5 million medical masks to Kyrgyzstan
Content: 19 October 2020
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan – WHO handed over 1,537,500 pieces of medical masks to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic. The total cost of humanitarian aid comprises around 460 thousand US dollars. Current medical masks are provided through the "Alibaba" Foundation in partnership with the World Health Organization (WHO) and will be distributed among medical institutions across the country to protect health workers at primary health care, hospitals and laboratories.
“By wearing a mask, you’re sending a powerful message to those around you that we’re all in this together,” - highlighted Dr Nazira Artykova, WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan. “Wear a mask when appropriate, keep your physical distance from others and avoid crowded places. Observe coughing etiquette, clear your hands frequently and you’ll be protecting yourself and others.”
Also, in September, WHO donated 1,000 PCR test systems to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic to conduct 50,000 studies on COVID-19. The total cost of humanitarian aid is US $ 1 million. These test systems were included in the WHO list of recommended for use in emergency situations for the diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 in vitro, have 95% specificity and high sensitivity.
Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, WHO had delivered to Kyrgyzstan personal protective equipment and provided PCR test kits for COVID-19 response and laboratory confirmation of positive results. In addition, WHO had handed over supplies of laboratory consumables for sample collection and testing.
WHO supports the Ministry of Health with e-learning training cycles for healthcare workers, including laboratory, primary health, hospital and public health specialists to respond to COVID-19.
Information: this assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government to assist her in emergency preparedness and response for COVID-19 and setting a stage for early recovery. Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.
Follow the news via information portals of the UN in the Kyrgyz Republic:
Telegram: @covid19unkg
Facebook: @UN.Kyrgyzstan
Twitter: @un_kyrgyzstan
Instagram: @un_kyrgyzstan
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/96312-world-health-organization-who-provided-over-15-million-medical-masks-kyrgyzstan




Date: 12 October 2020
Title: World Food Programme awarded Nobel Peace Prize - Statement by WFP Executive Director David Beasley
Content: 12 October 2020
ROME – The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to the World Food Programme (WFP) is a humbling, moving recognition of the work of WFP staff who lay their lives on the line every day to bring food and assistance for close to 100 million hungry children, women and men across the world. People whose lives are often brutally torn apart by instability, insecurity and conflict.
Every one of the 690 million hungry people in the world today has the right to live peacefully and without hunger. Today, the Norwegian Nobel Committee has turned the global spotlight on them and on the devastating consequences of conflict. Climate shocks and economic pressures have further compounded their plight. And now, a global pandemic with its brutal impact on economies and communities, is pushing millions more to the brink of starvation.
The Nobel Peace Prize is not WFP’s alone.  We work closely with government, organizations and private sector partners whose passion for helping the hungry and vulnerable equals ours. We could not possibly help anyone without them. We are an operational agency and the daily work of our staff each day is driven by our core values of integrity, humanity and inclusion.
Where there is conflict, there is hunger. And where there is hunger, there is often conflict. Today is a reminder that food security, peace and stability go together. Without peace, we cannot achieve our global goal of zero hunger; and while there is hunger, we will never have a peaceful world.
#                           #                            #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media.  Follow Executive Director David Beasley on Twitter @WFPChief
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/95231-world-food-programme-awarded-nobel-peace-prize-statement-wfp-executive-director-david-beasley




Date: 06 October 2020
Title: Statement by the UN Secretary-General on the situation in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 06 October 2020
The Secretary-General is closely monitoring the situation in the Kyrgyz Republic, where protests erupted yesterday in the aftermath of the 4 October parliamentary elections, reportedly leaving one person dead and over one hundred injured.
The Secretary-General regrets the loss of life and urges all involved to exercise the utmost restraint and refrain from violence.
The Secretary-General encourages all Kyrgyz actors to engage in dialogue and agree on a way forward within the constitutional framework.  The United Nations stands ready to support all efforts aimed at finding a peaceful resolution of the current situation, including through the United Nations Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia (UNRCCA).
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 6 October 2020
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/94430-statement-un-secretary-general-situation-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 04 October 2020
Title: Photo exhibition ‘Women creating the history of Kyrgyzstan’
Content: 04 October 2020
October 4, 2020, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan - A photo exhibition dedicated to the role and participation of women in the political life of the country is being held in Bishkek on the day of Parliament elections in Kyrgyz Republic.
October 4, 2020, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan - A photo exhibition dedicated to the role and participation of women in the political life of the country is being held in Bishkek on the day of Parliament elections in Kyrgyz Republic.
This event is organized by the Central Election Committee in partnership with UN Women and UNDP as part of the implementation of the National Campaign to Support Women's Leadership in Political Life in Kyrgyzstan.
The photo exhibition contains photographs and biographies of women who have made an invaluable contribution to the formation and development of the Republic in socio-political and socio-cultural activities.
“There is an opinion in the society that women should not take part in the political life of the country. And women who do go into politics are generally perceived as “supporters” or “implementors” of the political ambitions of their male colleagues, and not as “leaders”.
With this exhibition, we want to show that women's leadership is multifaceted, and Kyrgyz women have always taken an active part in all aspects of the country's activities, ”- UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan Ozonnia Ojielo.
The exhibition showcases historical figures such as Kurmanzhan Datka and Urkuya Salieva, women who contributed to agriculture and medicine - Kakish Ryskulova and Fedosiya Strelnikova, as well as contemporaries who made an undeniable contribution to culture, science and sports, like Aisuluu Tynybekova and Asel Sartbaeva.
In Kyrgyzstan currently women comprise 16,7% in the Parliament. Only 29,3% of women occupy political and governing positions. According to UN Women, there is a stereotypical appointment of women in government services, mainly in the social sphere.
The participation of women in decision-making is the most important condition for the successful advancement of all other areas of gender equality. This fact was confirmed during of the pandemic crisis with regard to the Covid-19. Women-managers and public female activists have played a key role in terms of the aid mobilization to needy vulnerable population during of the critical period when the incidences of a disease reached a highest peak.
Information for the photo exhibition is taken from the book by Kulbubu Bekturganova "Kyrgyz woman: history and modernity", which contains about 200 essays about women in Kyrgyzstan.
This event was organized within the framework of the UNDP Kyrgyz Republic Election Assistance Program with the support of the Swiss government.

Media contact
Nargiz Koshoibekova
UN Women
Nargiz.koshoibekova@unwomen.org


UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/93965-photo-exhibition-%E2%80%98women-creating-history-kyrgyzstan%E2%80%99




Date: 24 September 2020
Title: WFP HANDS OVER AN ONLINE FOOD SECURITY MAPPING TOOL TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Content: 24 September 2020
BISHKEK – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has handed over a unique online instrument to map food security and nutrition situations across the country to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industries and Melioration (MoAFIM) of the Kyrgyz Republic. The handover ceremony which takes place today concludes a two-year partnership to digitize food security data collection, analysis and dissemination for planning food security interventions at district-level.
The online Food Security Atlas (FSA), which provides a comprehensive and real-time analysis of food availability, access, utilization and stability at province and district-level, will support the policy makers at national level and local authorities in the field to determine the food insecure shocks and formulate tailored response actions.
“Working hand-in-hand with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industries and Melioration in understanding of food security and nutrition situation in the country, we will better identify the needs of the most vulnerable communities and provided targeted and efficient support,” remarked Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Kyrgyz Republic Country Director.
The online FSA collects and analyses a massive amount of real-time data on over 70 food security and nutrition indicators ranging from the levels of agricultural production to micronutrient consumption to climate change impact. Detailed overviews with visual representations of regional disparities in food security situations and area-based maps contribute to developing a full picture of food security in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“Real-time robust analysis of key socio-economic indicators of food security is making the FSA a powerful evidence-based tool to design local action plans as part of the National Food Security and Nutrition Programme for 2019-2023,” remarked Amangeldi Isaev, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food Industries and Melioration of the Kyrgyz Republic.
More specifically, the online Food Security Atlas, available at https://agroprod.kg/atlas/, displays a dynamic analysis of district-level production especially focusing on the nine main staple foods which are essential for a national balanced food security basket, including wheat, meat, eggs, milk, potatoes, fruits, vegetables, sugar and vegetable oil. The atlas also offers critical gender-specific information on households’ incomes, access to food, markets, expenditures, and employment. Combined with nutrition and food consumption information and climate-related data, the FSA analysis is indispensable for a comprehensive understanding of the food security and nutrition context and challenges, and right policy decisions.
#                 #                  #
The United Nations World Food Programme - saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development. WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/92404-wfp-hands-over-online-food-security-mapping-tool-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 23 September 2020
Title: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs had a meeting with the new FAO Representative
Content: 23 September 2020
On September 21, 2020, the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic Nuran Niyazaliev met with the newly appointed Representative of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in the Kyrgyz Republic Adnan Quereshi, during which the A. Quereshi presented his credentials to the leadership of the MFA of KR.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of cooperation between the Kyrgyz Republic and FAO. In particular, the role of FAO as one of the key international organizations providing assistance to the development of the Kyrgyz Republic through the implementation of projects aimed at reducing poverty and ensuring food security in rural areas was noted. In addition, the issue of joint implementation of measures within the UN to address the problems of mountain countries was considered.
A. Quereshi marked FAO readiness to revise a number of planned activities within the framework of current and planned projects to overcome the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and address the socio-economic challenges that have arisen.
At the end of the meeting, the First Deputy Minister thanked FAO for the support provided to the Kyrgyz Republic and expressed hope for further continuation of fruitful cooperation.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/92060-%C2%A0ministry-foreign-affairs-had-meeting-new-fao-representative%C2%A0




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: Closing of the Online Forum: “Youth, friendship, intercultural dialogue” was held in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 21 September 2020
On September 21, 2020, the official closing of the Online Forum: “Youth, friendship, intercultural dialogue” was held within the framework of the project "Kyrgyzstan's youth cohesion and interaction towards Uzbekistan ", which is funded by the UN Peacebuilding Fund. The closing ceremony was attended by representatives of the State Agency for Youth Affairs, Physical culture and sport under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Agency for Youth Affairs of the Republic of Uzbekistan, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic Ozonnia Ojielo, as well as representatives of UNICEF, UNICEF, UNDP in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic, Ozonnia Ojielo, in his welcoming speech, congratulated participants of the event on the International Day of Peace. The focus of this year’s International Day of Peace is “Shaping Peace Together.” Ozonnia Ojielo emphasized the important role of young people in sustaining peace and thanked participants of the online forum for their active participation.
The results of the activities were presented to attendees during the closing of the forum. Online forum: “Youth, friendship, intercultural dialogue”, which lasted for one month, was aimed at creating an online dialogue platform for strengthening youth cooperation. More than 100 young participants from the age of 16 to 20 years from the border regions of Kyrgyzstan and students from Uzbekistan living and studying in Kyrgyzstan took part in the events within the framework of the forum. The forum included interesting webinars with speakers from Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, live broadcasts with celebrities of the two countries in social networks, and an online conference on strengthening cooperation between young people in the border areas. In addition, various competitions and online marathons were organized through which young people were able to express their position on strengthening cooperation in a creative form: music, dance, essays, etc.
The Forum was an excellent starting point for bringing together the youth at the border areas of both countries and promoting youth diplomacy in the region. Young people from the border areas have learned that today young people play a huge role in promoting sustainable peace. As the forum participants note, the most important thing they have gained is friends. "In friendship there is no concept of nationality, friendship has no borders, thanks to the forum we have found friends, and this is the most valuable thing! » - shared one of the participants of the initiative, Emina Ibragimova (15 years old).
Online forum: “Youth, friendship, intercultural dialogue” was held under the leadership Of the State Agency for Youth and Sport under the Government of the Kyrgyz Rebulic in partnership with the NGO "Youth of Osh", IDEA CA with technical support from UNICEF, UNDP, UNFPA and funding from the UN Peacebuilding Fund within the framework of the project " Kyrgyzstan's youth cohesion and interaction towards Uzbekistan”.
The goal of the project “Kyrgyzstan's youth cohesion and interaction towards Uzbekistan” is to promote the ideas of peace, tolerance and good neighborhood among young people. For ten months, young activists from Batken, Jalal-Abad and Osh regions have been developing communities and promoting solutions to current problems in their communities through local initiative groups.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/91961-closing-online-forum-%E2%80%9Cyouth-friendship-intercultural-dialogue%E2%80%9D-was-held-kyrgyzstan




Date: 11 September 2020
Title: Creativity contest | International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction 2020
Content: 11 September 2020
The United Nations General Assembly has designated October 13th as the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction to promote a global culture of disaster risk reduction.
#ItsAllAboutGovernance #DRRday
The United Nations General Assembly has designated October 13th as the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction to promote a global culture of disaster risk reduction. It is an opportunity to acknowledge the progress being made toward reducing disaster risk and losses in lives, livelihoods and health in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 adopted at the Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Japan in March 2015.
In 2016, the UN Secretary-General launched “The Sendai Seven Campaign” to promote each of the seven targets over seven years. The 2020 target is Target E: “Substantially increase the number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020”, which lays the foundation for the implementation of the Sendai Framework and is closely linked with Priority for Action 2: “Strengthening disaster risk governance to manage disaster risk.”
In keeping with the Day’s focus on the impact that disasters have on people’s lives and well-being, this year’s theme is about conveying the message that many disasters can be avoided or prevented if there are disaster risk reduction strategies in place to manage and reduce existing levels of risk and to avoid the creation of new risk. What that amounts to is “good disaster risk governance.”
In dedication of the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction, UNDRR announces a Creativity Contest in Central Asia. Everyone has an opportunity to show their talent and contribute to the safety of their community by raising awareness on disaster risk reduction by submitting their work. Please read below the terms and condition of the Creativity Contest.
Participants should answer the following question: How would you reduce disaster risks in your community?
Eligibility requirements:
Anyone with creativity skills is eligible to enter the contest.
Submit materials such as:
Technical specifications for submission. All materials should be submitted electronically to zamirbek.berdigulov@un.org or sent to the UN House, 160 Chui Avenue Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. Participants are responsible to ensure the quality of the submitted material. Any entries deemed offensive will be immediately disqualified. The submitted material must be an original creation - no copyrighted images may be used. The participant must certify and warrant that the submitted material does not violate the rights of a third party or any copyright. UNDRR is not responsible for intellectual property violations that might have resulted through the submissions.
Judging and notification of selected participants. The Contest closes at 23:59 pm on October 10, 2020 (Bishkek time), qualifying materials will be judged on adherence to the Contest theme through its message clarity, composition and overall presentation. UNDRR will appoint a jury to judge the entries. The selected entry will be announced on October 13, 2020 and the winner will be notified by e-mail.
Rights and ownership. By submitting their works to UNDRR, participants agree to grant UNDRR free of charge the right to use the submitted work in any manner and media, including without limitation, the right to publish, adapt, distribute, copy, display or translate in printed or electronic media even if they are not the winning entries.
Award. The selected candidate will receive UNDRR Certificate, will be invited to events dedicated to disaster risk reduction in UN House and the winners’ work will be used for UNDRR materials as mentioned above.
For more information, please contact:
Mr. Zamirbek Berdigulov
National Technical Officer
zamirbek.berdigulov@un.org
Tel: (996) 312 61 12 24 (286) Fax: (996) 312 611191
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR)
c/o UNICEF
UN House, 160 Chui Avenue Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. 720040
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/90441-creativity-contest-international-day-disaster-risk-reduction-2020




Date: 10 September 2020
Title: Building back better on food and agriculture
Content: 10 September 2020
FAO has elaborated a comprehensive Response and Recovery Programme to overcome the impacts of COVID-19 through up-scaled and robust international collaboration
By QU Dongyu, Director-General of Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
As the impacts of COVID-19 take their toll on human health and well-being around the world, the imperative of producing and ensuring access to healthy food for each and every one of us must not be overlooked. The food systems that must give daily sustenance to all humans on this planet are under threat by the pandemic. If we want to avoid what could be the worst food crisis in modern history, we need robust and strategic international cooperation at an extraordinary scale.
Even before the pandemic, global food systems and food security were strained by many factors, including pests, poverty, conflicts and the impacts of climate change.  According to the latest FAO report on The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World, in 2019 close to 690 million – or nearly one in ten people in the world – were hungry. The COVID-19 pandemic could push an additional 130 million people worldwide into chronic hunger by the end of 2020. Furthermore, in 2019 three billion people did not have access to healthy diets and suffered from other forms of malnutrition.
Due to the pandemic and related containment measures, we have already experienced disruptions in global food supply chains, labor shortages and lost harvests. Now we are seeing a delayed planting season. Around 4.5 billion people depend on food systems for their jobs and livelihoods, working to produce, collect, store, process, transport and distribute food to consumers, as well as to feed themselves and their families. The pandemic has put 35 percent of food system employment at risk, impacting women at an even higher rate.
The impacts of this reality are both immediate and far-reaching. Together we can – and must – limit COVID-19’s damaging effects on food security and nutrition. Simultaneously, we need to transform our food systems for a more resilient and equitable future. To build back better.
From the very beginning of the pandemic, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has actively supported countries and farmers to work on scalable and sustainable solutions to help ensure nutritious food for all. This forms the basis of the comprehensive FAO COVID-19 Response and Recovery Programme, which identifies seven priority areas for action. However, to catalyze and build upon these solutions, a business as usual approach will not suffice. The following three strategic shifts must guide our collective response.
First, we need better data for better decision-making.
Timely and effective responses to the impact of COVID-19 depend upon knowing exactly where and when support is needed, as well as how that support can be implemented best. This means up-scaling work on data, information and analysis, and taking a bottom-up approach.
FAO is rapidly adapting and enhancing data collection methods at the country, regional and global levels, as data collection processes have been disrupted by physical distancing measures to contain the pandemic. For instance, FAO has recently released the FAO Data Lab to bring real time data on food prices and sentiment analysis. We have also developed the Hand-in-Hand Geospatial Platform which brings more than 1 million geospatial layers to help prioritize interventions within countries. These make visual datasets available to provide global early-warnings on possible hotspots that may be affected by adverse weather conditions, and how they evolve over time.
Second, we must dramatically increase the synergy of our collective actions.
The COVID-19 crisis calls for us not only to come together, but to act in unison like never before. Pooling all available data, efforts and resources for synergistic action will be paramount for a holistic response and recovery, as will collaboration on promoting economic inclusion, agricultural trade, sustainable and resilient food systems, preventing future animal-to-human disease outbreaks and ensuring coordinated humanitarian action.
The pandemic is already generating an unprecedented impact on global and regional trade, with world merchandise trade in 2020 expected to fall by as much as 32 percent[1]. Unlike any other food or health crisis in modern times, the impacts of COVID-19 are causing supply and demand shocks at a national, regional and global level, leading to immediate and longer-term risks for food production and availability. We need to ensure the compliance of trade requirements and improve efficiency in moving goods across borders. FAO aims to facilitate and increase international agricultural and food trade, with a focus on intraregional trade.
In addition, the prevention of future animal-to-human disease outbreaks requires coordination between stakeholders from all relevant sectors. This includes the health sector, as well national and local natural resource management and rural development, in order to address potential outbreaks in high-risk hotspots. To respond to these needs, FAO and the World Health Organization (WHO) have recently strengthened the Joint FAO/WHO Centre. This Centre hosts the Codex Alimentarius Commission and unites expertise on zoonotic diseases from FAO, WHO and other global partners and coordination mechanisms, to build national capacities to predict, prevent and control zoonotic threats.
An effective food and agricultural response to the pandemic also calls for joint humanitarian action, particularly to improve the livelihoods of vulnerable smallholder and family farmers. We must thoughtfully and adequately increase collaboration and partnerships among and between United Nations’ entities, the private sector, civil society and key local actors. It is only if we all work hand in hand for greater coherence and efficiency that we can we achieve success on the ground.
Third, we must accelerate innovation.
New investment strategies, digital technology and infrastructure innovation are essential to obtaining better data, increasing efficiency in food production and providing market access. In this regard, there are many solutions from the private sector that could be of great use to governments and international organizations, which can fine-tune their methods based on the private sector’s innovation-centric, results-oriented approach.
The prevention of food crises cannot wait until the health crisis is over, nor can we simply aim to return to the unacceptable levels of hunger and food insecurity witnessed before the pandemic. FAO is placing its convening power, real-time data, early warning systems and technical expertise at the world’s disposal. Together, we can help the most vulnerable, prevent further crises, increase resilience to shocks and accelerate the rebuilding of our food systems.
Together we can ensure a future in which everyone is well nourished. I invite you to join us and be part of the solution.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/90278-building-back-better-food-and-agriculture




Date: 05 September 2020
Title: UN in the Kyrgyz Republic calls on Political Parties to Exercise Caution and Avoid Spread of COVID-19
Content: 05 September 2020
The start of campaigning period ahead of the 4 October Parliamentary Election has been officially announced. While recognizing that it is an important time whereby political parties reach out to voters so that they can make informed choices, we also acknowledge that COVID-19 has not gone away, even though the spread of the coronavirus, as evidenced by the official statistics, has fallen since its peak in July 2020.
The COVID-19 pandemic remains a major global issue, negatively affecting thousands of people everyday globally. Therefore, we call on the political parties taking part in the parliamentary election to maintain all the necessary sanitary and epidemiological measures, including social distancing, wearing mask, washing or sanitizing hands, as recommended by the Government and WHO, while organizing meetings with the population. It is the obligation of the political parties to ensure that all the risks of potential spread of COVID-19 at their public meetings and gatherings are addressed in an adequate manner to avoid health issues and deaths among the population due to COVID-19. We also call on the Central Election Commission to insist with political parties that they show sufficient regard to the potential risks of infection of COVID-19 during political party campaigns.
If we all physically distance, clean our hands regularly, wear masks, and keep informed, we can collectively break the chains of transmission, especially as countries are getting ready for colder months with flu season.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/89766-un-kyrgyz-republic-calls-political-parties-exercise-caution-and-avoid-spread-covid-19




Date: 20 August 2020
Title: Central Asia plans to implement the “DesInventar-Sendai” system software for disaster risk reduction
Content: 20 August 2020
The United Nations office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), in collaboration with the CIMA Research Foundation and the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center (ADPC), organized the first online introductory workshop for the countries of Central Asia on the “DesInventar-Sendai” system software for the systematic collection, analysis and reporting of data related to disaster losses. The support for the establishment of a mechanism for accounting the damage and losses resulting from disasters is part of the UNDRR regional Initiative “Strengthening disaster resilience and accelerating implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction in Central Asia 2019-2022” funded by the European Union.
Representatives of UNDRR, experts from the CIMA Research Foundation and ADPC presented the project “National Disaster Loss Databases implementation in Central Asia” that has been developed under the UNDRR office aegis. The goal of the project is to support the use of the “DesInventar-Sendai” software for the systematic collection, documentation and analysis of data related to disaster losses and to facilitate national reporting on the targets of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.
The Sendai National Focal Points, experts from national emergency management organizations and national statistical offices took part in the regional workshop. The participants discussed and reviewed national systems for collecting and analyzing data on disaster losses, their strengths, and areas for improvement. They stressed on the importance of improving data collection and analysis systems for national reports on the implementation of Sendai Framework and Sustainable Development Goals 2015-2030. Cooperation in implementing the project and achieving its goals will continue in the countries of the region, in coordination and in collaboration with national emergency management organizations and national statistical offices.
The implementation of the “DesInventar Sendai” system software has helped more than 90 countries worldwide to develop a sustainable disaster information management system aligned with the Sendai Framework monitoring process. The system allows to analyze disaster trends and impacts through a large range of sectoral and socio-economical dimensions. As a main benefit, the “DesInventar Sendai” system supports a dialogue on risk management and disaster risk reduction planning between all stakeholders from the local to the regional level.
For more information, please contact:
Ms. Ogulgerek Annayeva
National Technical Officer
ogulgerek.annayeva@un.org
Tel: (993-12) 488325 (117) Fax: (993-12) 488311
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR)
c/o United Nations Resident Coordinator Office (UNRCO)

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/88176-central-asia-plans-implement-%E2%80%9Cdesinventar-sendai%E2%80%9D-system-software-disaster-risk-reduction




Date: 19 August 2020
Title: World Health Organization (WHO) delivers 100 pieces of oxygen concentrators to the Kyrgyz Republic to combat COVID-19
Content: 19 August 2020
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan - Today, WHO handed over 100 pieces of oxygen concentrators to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic within the framework COVID-19 response in the Kyrgyz Republic. The oxygen concentrators are being provided under the WHO pipeline and the total cost of humanitarian aid comprises 59,000 USD.
Oxygen concentrators are of extreme importance in respiratory infectious disease management. The concentrators deliver pure, high quality oxygen with the appropriate concentration vital for the treatment of severe COVID-19 patients with low blood oxygen levels. These items are supplied upon the request of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to support COVID-19 response. The Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic plans to distribute the oxygen concentrators across the country.
“The donation is part of the COVID-19 response and mitigating its impact on the health system in the country. It is envisaged that the support will contribute towards strengthening the health care system and provide an added impetus to our joint efforts in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic”, highlighted Dr Nazira Artykova WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
“The Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic expresses its gratitude to the World Health Organization for the assistance and support provided to the health care system of the Kyrgyz Republic. WHO provides comprehensive assistance to Kyrgyzstan in the fight against COVID-19. We have already received several shipments of humanitarian aid. We hope that our joint and fruitful work for the benefit of preserving the health of our citizens will be successfully continued”, noted Dr Madamin Karataev, Deputy Minister of Health.
Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, WHO had delivered to Kyrgyzstan personal protective equipment and provided PCR test kits for COVID-19 response and laboratory confirmation of positive results. In addition, WHO had handed over supplies of laboratory consumables for sample collection and testing (tubes, swabs, kits, reagents, etc.).
WHO supports the Ministry of Health with e-learning training cycles for healthcare workers, including laboratory, primary health, hospital and public health specialists to respond to COVID-19.
Information: this assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government to assist her in emergency preparedness and response for COVID-19 and setting a stage for early recovery. Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.
Follow the news via information portals of the UN in the Kyrgyz Republic:
Telegram: @covid19unkg
Facebook: @UN.Kyrgyzstan
Twitter: @un_kyrgyzstan
Instagram: @un_kyrgyzstan

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/87864-world-health-organization-who-delivers-100-pieces-oxygen-concentrators-kyrgyz-republic-combat




Date: 13 August 2020
Title: ADB, UN Report Provides Policy Recommendations on Kyrgyz Republic’s COVID-19 Recovery
Content: 13 August 2020
The Kyrgyz Republic can address the socioeconomic challenges related to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic by moving aggressively to strengthen the health system, expand social protection and employment, and improve transparency in the government’s pandemic response. This is according to a joint study by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the Economic Policy Research Institute in the Kyrgyz Republic’s Ministry of Economy.
The report, COVID-19 in the Kyrgyz Republic: Socioeconomic and Vulnerability Impact Assessment and Policy Response, describes how the global, regional, and local macroeconomic shocks are affecting the Kyrgyz Republic’s population, including informal segments, labor markets, people in urban and rural areas, and vulnerable groups. It also discusses the pandemic’s socioeconomic impacts on poverty and food security, as well as the adequacy of government policies. The report expects a 10% gross domestic product decline in 2020; a decline of up to 25% in remittance inflows; and increases in poverty and socioeconomic vulnerability. In the worst-case scenario, the unemployment rate could jump to 21%.
Substantial losses forecast in major economic sectors such as tourism, trade, consumer services, and construction are expected to hit those working informally in urban areas, many of whom are not covered by any form of social protection. Survey research conducted for the assessment also found that micro-entrepreneurs, people living with disabilities, and families with many children are particularly vulnerable to the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic.
To mitigate this, the assessment sets out integrated policy recommendations which include increasing investment in health services for vulnerable communities; supporting small businesses; ensuring gender-appropriate humanitarian assistance for labor migrants stranded in destination countries; upscaling social assistance covering the new vulnerable groups; more job opportunities; and capitalizing on opportunities to “build back better”.
"This study is a joint effort of international experts, research institutions and the scientific community of Kyrgyzstan to develop probable scenarios of socio-economic consequences from the coronavirus pandemic and theoretical recommendations, which, we hope, will be taken into account,” said Minister of Economy Sanjar Mukanbetov.
“The pandemic is a development crisis. It has fundamentally changed the economic structure and outlook for the Kyrgyz people and increased the number of vulnerable. The report captures different dimensions and provides a holistic understanding of how the country has been affected. Focus must now be on strengthening resilience and preventing people falling into poverty, while finding new avenues to strengthen economic sectors and rebuilding fiscal stability. Together with other agencies of the UN system, UNDP will work to create jobs and strengthen social cohesion, while supporting the government in finding strategies to ‘build back better’ and accelerate sustainable development,” said UNDP’s Resident Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic Louise Chamberlain.
“This report outlines clear recommendations that can help decision makers set longer-term recovery policies to reduce structural poverty, vulnerability and inequality, advance the Sustainable Development Goals, and ensure no one is left behind. The assessment findings in the more immediate-term will contribute to raising levels of evidence-based decision-making by the government as it confronts the unfolding effects of COVID-19 disruption across the country’s population,” said ADB Country Director for the Kyrgyz Republic Candice McDeigan.
The assessment takes into account results from surveys and benefits from key contributions from development agencies in the Kyrgyz Republic, including the UN Country Team such as the World Food Program, UN Population Fund, UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN, World Health Organization, International Labour Organization, International Organization for Migration, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), UN Women, and UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation, as well bilateral and multilateral organizations in the Kyrgyz Republic.
To access the assessment, please click here.
UNDP’s COVID-19 crisis response is designed to help decision-makers look beyond recovery, towards 2030, making choices and managing complexity and uncertainty in four main areas: governance and agency, social protection, green economy, and digital disruption. This includes focus on rule of law and e-governance, investments in digitalization and the green economy, strategies for informal sector workers, and design of a new generation of resilient, green jobs that support youth-led entrepreneurship. As part of the UN system response to COVID-19, UNDP mobilized $2.8 million for early support to the health sector in Kyrgyz Republic and has realigned its country operation to support resilient recovery following the pandemic.
On the ground in nearly 170 countries and territories, UNDP offers global perspective and local insight to help empower lives and build resilient nations.
ADB has provided $50 million in budget support to help the Kyrgyz Republic mitigate the health and socioeconomic impacts of COVID-19 in May, followed by $20 million in emergency assistance to help strengthen the health sector in June. Earlier in April, ADB approved $200,000 followed by an additional $800,000 for emergency medical assistance to help the Kyrgyz Republic procure medical supplies and equipment.
ADB is committed to achieving a prosperous, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable Asia and the Pacific, while sustaining its efforts to eradicate extreme poverty. Established in 1966, it is owned by 68 members—49 from the region.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/87316-adb-un-report-provides-policy-recommendations-kyrgyz-republic%E2%80%99s-covid-19-recovery




Date: 03 August 2020
Title: Pandemic’s impact on agrifood production and markets in Eurasia is as diverse as the region itself
Content: 03 August 2020
New FAO brief anticipates good cereal production but expects a reduction in regional wheat production and volatility in domestic staple food prices.
Prospects for cereal production in Europe and Central Asia are generally positive, but a reduction is expected in regional wheat production, according to a regional FAO policy brief on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Some food prices in the countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus peaked during the first six months of 2020, but prolonged logistics, trade and market disruptions continue to challenge agrifood value chains, according to the report.
The Europe and Central Asia: Regional food market situation and policy bulletin overviews market supply and demand in the region and looks at the responses to the COVID-19 pandemic of agrifood markets, value chains and policies. The information was gathered through ongoing surveys and monitoring in the region.
Overall cereal production in 2020 is expected to be close to the five-year average, but wheat – an important staple for export and consumption – is expected to be down in the new crop season due to unfavourable weather and hampered access to inputs (such as seeds and fertilizers) in some countries, particularly in Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. In the same countries, plus Georgia, the retail prices of most key basic foods saw large increases in the first half of the year compared to the same period in 2019, implying a significant increase in the cost of a healthy diet.
“In some countries, mainly in Central Asia and the Caucasus, households spend almost half of their budgets on food, which is true especially for vulnerable groups, such as pensioners in Tajikistan,” said Fang Cheng, FAO commodity and trade economist. “For them, the price increases in staple foods as a result of COVID-19 can have significantly negative impacts on food security and nutrition.”
All actors in the agrifood value chain – not just consumers – are affected by the situation.
Some farmers have reported spending less money on food, and some have reported selling productive assets to cope with financial shocks. According to FAO’s latest surveys, conducted in June, the COVID-19 pandemic has had negative impacts on transportation, storage, sales, financial situations, input availability and labour markets. Despite the easing of lockdown measures, agrifood transport still has not fully recovered, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kyrgyzstan, Turkey and Uzbekistan. These countries also flagged severe storage bottlenecks during the harvesting season. Disruptions in sales have occurred, among other reasons, due to lower demand and stricter food safety controls, mostly for fruits, vegetables, potatoes and live animals. A larger share of livestock farmers reported financial difficulties than did crop farmers and their
traders/processors, with the survey showing hampered access to feed, medicines and veterinary products.
“In the spring, after the global COVID-19 pandemic started, export restrictions were introduced in large exporting and net importing countries alike,” Fang said. “Most of these policies have been lifted, fortunately, as trade is crucial in keeping food markets stable and food and agricultural systems alive.”
North Macedonia and Uzbekistan, in addition to other countries,  established “green corridors,” a mechanism for customs clearance, to support regional agrifood trade. Digital solutions, such as the Digital Agriculture Marketplace Platform in Turkey, have been adopted in agricultural marketing. Many countries – including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Republic of Moldova, Turkey and Uzbekistan – have created financial initiatives and programmes to help overcome the financial challenges of the crisis. Decision-makers also have developed social support packages to provide food access to vulnerable populations in Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kyrgyzstan, Montenegro and Tajikistan.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/86221-pandemic%E2%80%99s-impact-agrifood-production-and-markets-eurasia-diverse-region-itself




Date: 17 July 2020
Title: Safety First: Ensuring the safety of healthcare workers while responding to the urgent needs of vulnerable populations in the time of COVID-19
Content: 17 July 2020
The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) donates personal protective equipment to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic within the framework of a joint UN project for 20 medical institutions to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
The delivery set included nitrile gloves, insulating gowns, protective suits, sealed against liquid, surgical respirators with a high filtration degree, surgical masks, face shields and protective panoramic glasses in the amount of 5,500 pieces of each item for healthcare organizations in Bishkek, Naryn and Osh regions.
This delivery was made possible by a project funded by the UN Multi-Partner Trust Fund, which was created by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to support countries in coping with the health crisis and socio-economic impact caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
“To date, the pandemic in our republic has already introduced a new wave and a sharp increase in cases of coronavirus infection, which is the result of an unfavorable epidemiological situation and the requirement for infection control. Unfortunately, we are already seeing the consequences for healthcare workers, many healthcare workers are infected in the workplace, there are cases when healthcare workers gave their lives for the people,” said the Head of the UNFPA Office, addressing the Ministry of Health and hospital medical staff.
The UN is helping the MOH KR in its efforts to combat the pandemic by preventing the spread of the disease in healthcare facilities and protecting their staff. The majority of healthcare workers are women, who, first of all, need to have access to quality PPE and know how to use them correctly and consistently. It is our strong hope that healthcare professionals are protected to continue to provide essential services, including maternal and newborn care, and do not put colleagues, patients, families or communities at risk, thereby reducing person-to-person transmission of COVID-19. In this regard, procurement of medicines, PPE and training are an important component of this project. The distribution and control of the use of medicines and PPE will be a critical component of ensuring effective distribution based on needs.
This project aims to contribute to the implementation of a well-defined range of programs and framework strategies to combat COVID-19 by pooling contributions from multiple donors that are overseen and managed by the United Nations funds administrator.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/53443-safety-first-ensuring-safety-healthcare-workers-while-responding-urgent-needs-vulnerable




Date: 16 July 2020
Title: WHO delivers personal protective equipment to Kyrgyzstan to combat COVID-19
Content: 16 July 2020
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan - Today, The World Health Organization (WHO) has delivered personal protective equipment (PPE) to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic within the framework COVID-19 response in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Personal protective equipment is being provided under the WHO pipeline. PPE shipment includes 46,200 face shields; 14,600 goggles; gown 57,000; 150,000 KN95 respiratory masks. The total cost of humanitarian aid comprises 508,078.24 USD.
This personal protective equipment will enable to provide safe and effective work of healthcare workers. across the country. These items are supplied upon the request of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to support COVID-19 response. The Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic plans to distribute the PPEs to over 20 hospitals across the country.
“Today WHO is handing over the 10-tonne personal protective equipment to the Ministry of Health to support the country healthcare system, particularly the health workers who are on the front-line”, - highlighted Dr Tasnim Atatrah, WHO Health Emergency Central Asia Hub Coordinator and Acting WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan. “WHO has had a long-standing relationship with the Ministry of Health and Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and will continue to provide technical support and guidance”.
Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, WHO had delivered to Kyrgyzstan personal protective equipment and provided PCR test kits for COVID-19 response and laboratory confirmation of positive results. In addition, WHO had handed over supplies of laboratory consumables for sample collection and testing (tubes, swabs, kits, reagents, etc.).
WHO supports the Ministry of Health with e-learning training cycles for healthcare workers, including laboratory, primary health, hospital and public health specialists to respond to COVID-19.
Information: this assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government to assist her in emergency preparedness and response for COVID-19 and setting a stage for early recovery. Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.
Follow the news via information portals of the UN in the Kyrgyz Republic:
Telegram: @covid19unkg
Facebook: @UN.Kyrgyzstan
Twitter: @un_kyrgyzstan
Instagram: @un_kyrgyzstan

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/53351-who-delivers-personal-protective-equipment-kyrgyzstan-combat-covid-19




Date: 06 July 2020
Title: New FAO Representative takes up duties in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 06 July 2020
Adnan Quereshi has been appointed as FAO Representative in Kyrgyzstan, effective from 1 July. The British national will switch to the Central Asian country from the Organization’s Rome headquarters, where he served as senior programme officer since 2018.
“Kyrgyzstan is a vast country with very varied geography and climate, and FAO’s project portfolio reflects this diversity,” Quereshi said. “I look forward to learning more about our work covering aquaculture, youth engagement, animal health, food security and nutrition, locust, sustainable resource management, and many other areas.”
Quereshi joined FAO in 1995 as a programme and budget officer in Rome, during which time he also served as the Secretary of the FAO Programme Committee. Between 2009–2017, he was exposed to the “field” while assuming the role of senior administrative officer for Asia and Pacific, in the Organization’s Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific in Bangkok.
In the next year Quereshi held the position of the FAO Representative ad interim in Mongolia, where he improved the management of the office and widened the project portfolio, an experience that will prove valuable in his upcoming endeavor.
“I have been supporting FAO Representatives and country offices over the last 10 years, both from the field and FAO’s headquarters, giving them guidance on all kinds of management issues and on strengthening relationships with the host countries,” said Quereshi. “Therefore I know country office perspectives’ very well, and will use all my knowledge and experience at the service of FAO Kyrgyzstan.”
In addition to all these responsibilities, he has been an active facilitator of FAO’s governance structures and bodies at the country, regional, and global levels alike.
Before joining the UN, Quereshi gained wide professional experience in audit and finances during his almost 10 years of work in private companies and financial institutions.
He holds a Bachelor degree in business and economics (University of North London) and a Master of Business Administration (Durham University Business School). He has been a member of the Chartered Institute of Accounting and the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Quereshi’s mother tongue in English and he also speaks French.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/52055-new-fao-representative-takes-duties-kyrgyzstan




Date: 09 June 2020
Title: Gender Rapid Assessment Impact of COVID-19 in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 09 June 2020
UN Women with the support of Swiss Government, European Union and United Nations joint Spotlight Initiative and UNFPA carried out a gender rapid assessment to explore the impact of COVID-19 on the livelihoods of women and men in the Kyrgyz Republic.
One of the objectives of this study was to examine the general context, and how the epidemic and measures taken by the country's authorities affected women and men, especially vulnerable groups, such as women living with HIV, the elderly, women survivors of violence, women entrepreneurs and ethnic minorities.
“Gender assessment is a gender and age desegregated data analysis, which gives us a complete picture of how the quarantine and pandemic affected the population of Kyrgyzstan. When conducting the study, we used two approaches: human rights-based approach allowed us to see how services were provided without discrimination on the basis of gender, age, disability, or other characteristics,” said Ulziisuren Jamsran, UN Women Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
She notes that the gender approach was used to study the opportunities of women and men in accessing resources, how the restrictions imposed on citizens affected their economic situation and employment, as well as unpaid domestic work, reproductive health and other aspects. The assessment revealed gender power relations in government organizations that managed the processes of crisis response and the roles women and men played in it. The study showed that representation of men in the commandant’s offices and the republican headquarters was 80%.
Assessment showed people’s awareness, their source of information and preparedness for the pandemic. According to the data from the analysis, people aged 18-45 learned all the basic information about quarantine and the situation in the country through social media, people aged 45 and above - through radio, television and newspapers. Women survivors of violence were getting the information through SMS and only 3.5% of them were able to prepare for quarantine. Women living with HIV learned all the information from their friends, family and their community, while ethnic minorities and women entrepreneurs through official government sites.
The study also reflects recommendations for state authorities, at both central and local levels, civil society organizations and international organizations.
The results of the assessment are available at: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/sites/default/files/2020-07/ENG_Gender%20Rapi…
Media Contact:
Nargiz Koshoibekova
UN Women
Communications consultant
+996 550 98 12 21
Nargiz.koshoibekova@unwomen.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/48889-gender-rapid-assessment-impact-covid-19-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 05 June 2020
Title: UN Women and the Government of Japan will support women affected by COVID-19 in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 05 June 2020
The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) is joining hands with the Japanese Government to respond to the urgent needs of women and girls in marginalized and vulnerable communities in Kyrgyzstan during the COVID-19 pandemic.
With the contribution of USD 270,000, the one-year project will aim to enhance women’s access to basic services; support them in restoring their economic activities and livelihoods; strengthen security, rule of law and social cohesion; and support migrants and displaced people impacted by the crisis. The main goal of the project is to improve access to livelihood opportunities, skills development and gender-responsive policies for rural women affected by COVID-19 crisis in Naryn, Osh and Jalal-Abad regions.
“We will work closely with women’s groups, civil society organizations, national women ́s machineries, state and non-state actors. The project will build on existing partnerships and current programmatic work in the country, especially related to the specific services and support to survivors of gender-based violence, policy reforms and other reform initiatives led by UN Women,” said Ulziisuren Jamsran, UN Women Country Office representative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
500 women from poor and vulnerable households, including migrant women, women living with family members with disabilities, women with more than 5 children, ethnic minorities and rural women in vulnerable communities from the three regions are expected to benefit from the project.
The COVID-19 pandemic revealed that overall unpreparedness to crises in Kyrgyzstan is having devastating consequences for social and economic wellbeing and livelihoods of rural communities, especially women. Movement restrictions could be the cause of disruption of production and processing of food during the agricultural season, posing severe risks to the incomes and livelihoods of farming women, who already face economic insecurity due to limited financial resources and climate change.
In response to COVID-19, the Government of Japan is providing emergency support to UN Women in the Europe and Central Asia, Asia and the Pacific, Arab States, Eastern and Southern Africa regions. Kyrgyzstan and Moldova are receiving support in Europe and Central Asia.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/48568-un-women-and-government-japan-will-support-women-affected-covid-19-kyrgyzstan




Date: 21 May 2020
Title: United Nations Launches Global Initiative to Combat Misinformation
Content: 21 May 2020
NEW YORK, 21 MAY 2020—Today the United Nations is launching ‘Verified’, an initiative to combat the growing scourge of COVID-19 misinformation by increasing the volume and reach of trusted, accurate information.
“We cannot cede our virtual spaces to those who traffic in lies, fear and hate,” said UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, who announced the initiative. “Misinformation spreads online, in messaging apps and person to person. Its creators use savvy production and distribution methods. To counter it, scientists and institutions like the United Nations need to reach people with accurate information they can trust.”
Verified, led by the UN Department for Global Communications (DGC), will provide information around three themes: science – to save lives; solidarity – to promote local and global cooperation; and solutions – to advocate for support to impacted populations. It will also promote recovery packages that tackle the climate crisis and address the root causes of poverty, inequality and hunger.
The initiative is calling on people around the world to sign up to become “information volunteers” to share trusted content to keep their families and communities safe and connected. Described as digital first responders, the volunteers will receive a daily feed of verified content optimized for social sharing with simple, compelling mes- saging that either directly counters misinformation or fills an information void.
DGC will partner with UN agencies and UN country teams, influencers, civil society, business and media organi- zations to distribute trusted, accurate content and work with social media platforms to root out hate and harmful assertions about COVID-19.
“In many countries the misinformation surging across digital channels is impeding the public health response and stirring unrest. There are disturbing efforts to exploit the crisis to advance nativism or to target minority groups, which could worsen as the strain on societies grows and the economic and social fallout kicks in,” Melissa Fleming, UN Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications, said. “The Verified initiative will also work to address this trend with hopeful content that celebrates local acts of humanity, the contributions of refu- gees and migrants, and makes the case for global cooperation.”
The initiative is a collaboration with Purpose, one of the world’s leading social mobilization organizations. It is supported by the IKEA Foundation and Luminate.
Patricia Atkinson, the IKEA Foundation’s Chief Programmes Officer, said: “The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprec- edented global health crisis. The IKEA Foundation is proud to be supporting Verified -- an initiative aiming to make sure everyone has access to the trusted science and advice they need to keep their family and loved ones safe.”
Nishant Lalwani, Managing Director of Luminate, added: “COVID-19 has provided a stark reminder that access to accurate, trusted information can be the difference between fear and resilience, division and unity, and even life and death. We are proud to be supporting Verified and its work to tackle the coronavirus ‘infodemic’ by rapidly spreading reliable, science-based information to protect people and communities around the world.”


UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/47393-united-nations-launches-global-initiative-combat-misinformation




Date: 18 May 2020
Title: UN Women donated hygiene kits for the most vulnerable women
Content: 18 May 2020
The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) in Kyrgyzstan provided humanitarian aid in the form of hygiene kits for the most vulnerable women and girls in the regions.
A period of self-isolation is particularly difficult for economically inactive women or families with low incomes. The crisis leads to an increase in the need for personal hygiene and disinfection products, as well as remedies that are difficult for families with limited incomes.
Hygiene kits include cleansing wipes, sanitary pads, reusable face masks, essential hygiene items, liquid soap, sanitizers, detergent and more. More than 700 women in 27 communities in all 7 regions of Kyrgyzstan received aid.
“Governmental, commercial and other organizations that provide humanitarian aid to most vulnerable families mainly provide assistance with food packages, and the special needs of women very often remain in the background. These kits give women and girls the opportunity to use their limited funds to purchase other vital resources to meet their basic needs.” – said Ulziisuren Jamsran, UN Women Country Office representative in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Also, at the request of women leaders, in April, 16 villages of Osh, Jalal-Abad and Naryn region received humanitarian aid in the form of protective equipment (masks, sanitizers, gloves), cleaning products, children's and adult diapers and thermometers. In total, more than 2,200 families and 366 employees of the FAPs, ayil headquarters, checkpoints and hospitals received aid.
A pandemic is not just a health crisis, it is a humanitarian crisis where women disproportionately bear this burden at home and in the economy as a whole. Women are at the forefront as health and social workers, therefore more vulnerable and at risk. Also, many women are economically inactive and do not have financial security. Nonetheless, women bear the greatest burden of unpaid domestic work and are at risk of gender-based violence.
Media contact:
Nargiz Koshoibekova
UN Women Country Office in Kyrgyzstan
Communications consultant
+996 550 98 12 21
nargiz.koshoibekova@unwomen.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/46144-un-women-donated-hygiene-kits-most-vulnerable-women




Date: 16 May 2020
Title: Vice PM Aida Ismailova and UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo Discuss COVID-19 Response and Early Recovery Plan
Content: 16 May 2020
UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic Ozonnia Ojielo met with the Vice Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The meeting was attended by UNICEF representative Christine Jolmes, WHO representative Nazira Artykova, UNDP representative Louise Chamberlain, World Food Program representative Andrea Bagnoli, and Azamat Bayalinov, representative of the UNFPA.
During the meeting, the parties discussed COVID-19 Response and Early Recovery Plan in the sectors of health, social support, education, sanitatio, water hygiene, and food security. They also discussed the activities of the UN agencies on overcoming the consequences of COVID-19.
Following the meeting, the participants agreed to continue fruitful cooperation in all sectors within the framework of the Joint Response and Early Recovery Plan for COVID-19.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/46158-vice-pm-aida-ismailova-and-unrc-ozonnia-ojielo-discuss-covid-19-response-and-early-recovery




Date: 08 May 2020
Title: With support from Russian Federation, WFP continues to provide food assistance to vulnerable families in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 08 May 2020
In May, WFP and the Kyrgyz Ministry of Labor and Social Development (MLSD) will continue to provide food assistance to the most vulnerable families in Kyrgyzstan through a joint program. Thanks to funding from the Russian Federation, more than 1000 tons of food - fortified wheat flour and vegetable oil - will be sent to those in need in the Naryn, Talas, Jalal-Abad, Osh and Batken provinces.
More than 30,000 people from families living below the poverty line will receive a three-month worth of food ration consisting of 150 kg of wheat flour and 15 liters of oil per family to meet basic food needs.
WFP and the Ministry of Labor and Social Development of the Kyrgyz Republic distribute food aid in accordance with the priorities of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to support poor families. Food assistance is provided to participants through the joint WFP and MLSD program in return for community work.
“WFP supports the efforts of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to ensure food security, especially for the most vulnerable groups. The financial support of the Russian Federation is extremely important now, so that in the face of serious socio-economic consequences of the current crisis, no one will be left without support”, - said Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Country Director for the Kyrgyz Republic.
“The spread of coronavirus infection creates difficulties in our lives but is not able to erect barriers between friendship of two countries. The Russian Federation intends to continue financing WFP projects aimed at improving the quality of life in Kyrgyzstan and social protection of the population during this difficult period”, - emphasized N.N. Udovichenko, Russian Ambassador to Kyrgyzstan.
In accordance with the recommendations of health authorities, during the distribution of food aid all the necessary preventive measures to eliminate the risk of infection will be taken. In particular, WFP conducts safety training for its employees and partners and ensures social distance at food distribution points and the distribution of disinfectants, masks and gloves to all participants.
In April, WFP and MLSD distributed a total of 1,033 tons of food to more than 33,000 people from low-income families and, as far as possible, continued joint field projects - distance training on income-generating activities and improvement of rural infrastructure.
WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic is the agency coordinating work in the food security and logistics sectors during the COVID-19 crisis. In this role, WFP provides food assistance to the most vulnerable populations across the country to meet basic food needs during the crisis and monitors food prices in 18 markets across the country to analyse food security and food prices.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/44941-support-russian-federation-wfp-continues-provide-food-assistance-vulnerable-families




Date: 30 April 2020
Title: WHO has handed over personal protective equipment and laboratory consumables to Kyrgyzstan to combat COVID-19
Content: 30 April 2020
Today, the World Health Organization (WHO) has handed over personal protective equipment (PPE) to the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic within the framework of the fight against COVID-19 infectious disease in the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Personal protective equipment is being provided under the WHO pipeline. PPE shipment includes 950 protective overalls; 100 infrared thermometers; 950 of disposable gloves; 950 goggles; 950 type FFP 2 face masks. The total cost of humanitarian aid comprises more than 22, 000 USD.
This personal protective equipment will enable healthcare providers and primary care providers across the country to promptly and safely fight COVID-19 in the country. These items are supplied upon the request of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to combat COVID-19. The Sanitary and Epidemiological Service of the Kyrgyz Republic plans to distribute half of the PPEs to health care facilities in the south of the country.
In addition, at the request of the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic 2 procurements were completed and supply of laboratory consumables for sample collection and testing was organized (tubes, swabs, kits, reagents, etc.), amounting to about 36,000 USD.
WHO continuously provides updated evidence-based data, recommendations, guidelines on COVID-19 Prevention, Laboratory Diagnosis and Treatment to the Kyrgyz Republic Ministry of Health and health workers on a regular basis.  WHO has also handed over the printed communication materials on COVID-19 risks to the KR MOH, which were distributed to the general public across the country. These materials were jointly adapted by the Ministry of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic.
In mid-March, WHO in close collaboration with the US Agency for International Development (USAID) had provided the Kyrgyz Republic with protective protection equipment: 10 000 surgical masks; 10 000 gloves; 1400 protective overalls; 200 goggles and 200 FFP2 type face masks. The shipment was sent from the WHO Regional Logistics Center in Dubai.
Information: this assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government to assist her in emergency preparedness and response for COVID-19 and setting a stage for early recovery. Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/43712-who-has-handed-over-personal-protective-equipment-and-laboratory-consumables-kyrgyzstan




Date: 30 April 2020
Title: Safe spaces to protect women and girls from violence arranged as part of the EU-UN Spotlight Initiative in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 30 April 2020
BISHKEK, 30 April 2020 - The Spotlight Initiative in the Kyrgyz Republic allocates USD 200 000 to help address the issue of increased violence against women and girls during the COVID-19 outbreak in the country. The Spotlight Initiative aims to cover urgent needs of women and girls, affected by violence or at risk of violence in the current circumstances of physical isolation and increased economic and social pressures.

In Kyrgyzstan during the quarantine, the number of cases of domestic violence increased by 65%.  Compared to the same period from March 24 to April 24, 2019, in Bishkek 100 facts were registered, this year 162 facts. This message was channeled to the Commandant of Bishkek, Members of Parliament and Ministry of social development of KR. With the support of the Spotlight Initiative, temporary short-term safe spaces are arranged for women and girls subjected to violence. In addition, technical support is provided to the Government to finalize the guide and instructions of an algorithm for a multi-sectoral response to GBV (health, social services, law, police, justice, and humanitarian settings), Emergency GBV mobile groups will be created to support women. And also the work is done to coordinate on-line psychosocial services during COVID-19, and referral telephone mechanisms of hot-lines linked with the crisis centers.
“For many women and girls, the threat looms largest where they should be safest. In their own homes. It is critical to urgently address the increase of violence against women during COVID-19 pandemic through the collective efforts of the Government, international partners, civil society, media, and everyone of us. Women’s rights and freedoms are essential to strong, resilient societies,” says Ozonnia Ojielo, UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“We take note of the increase of domestic and gender-based violence during these difficult times in Kyrgyzstan, therefore we are adapting the Spotlight Initiative to address this issue. Together with the United Nations, our implementing partner in Kyrgyzstan, we will work with local partners among the civil society and government to help those affected by violence and contribute to a safe environment for women and girls,” Head of European Union Delegation to the Kyrgyz Republic Eduard Auer says.
In more detail, the Spotlight Initiative will support a civil society-led advocacy campaign for the prevention of gender-based and domestic violence during COVID-19. The programme will invest in awareness-raising digital campaigns, led by local-level youth and women activists, on preventive measures in the context of COVID-19.
The programme also aims to help the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic provide improved multi-sectoral and coordinated services to those affected by violence, by elaborating new formats that enable the undisrupted provision of services, including via online means, during the lockdown.
Special attention and support will be given to the access of women to the safe spaces and the continuity of essential services during the crisis. The Spotlight Initiative team also aims to provide support to the Government in overall mainstreaming the issues of gender-based violence into the national COVID-19 response plans. The team continues working with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and the civil society to develop better solutions on the elimination of violence against women and girls during the  COVID-19 pandemic.
In January 2020, in partnership with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, the EU and UN have launched a multi-year country programme under the global Spotlight Initiative on eliminating all forms of violence against women and girls.
The programme’s vision is to create an environment where all women and girls in Kyrgyzstan, particularly those most vulnerable, live a life free of violence and harmful practices, including child marriage and ala kachuu. The programme comprises a set of integrated interventions in the areas of policies and legislation, strengthening institutions, prevention of violence, provision of services to survivors of violence, collecting quality data, and supporting women’s movement and civil society. The programme is implemented by five UN agencies (UN Women, UNFPA, UNDP, UNICEF and UNODC) under the overall leadership of the UN Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/43713-safe-spaces-protect-women-and-girls-violence-arranged-part-eu-un-spotlight-initiative




Date: 23 April 2020
Title: Switzerland Supports WFP in Helping Social Inpatient Institutions in Kyrgyzstan to Cope with COVID-19 Hardships
Content: 23 April 2020
Bishkek – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in the Kyrgyz Republic welcomes a contribution of CHF 200,000 (USD196,500) from Switzerland that will help fund WFP’s emergency food assistance to 22 social inpatient institutions and boarding schools across the country.
WFP will use the funds to meet the immediate food needs and support the livelihoods of 3,100 residents of the country’s current social inpatient institutions and boarding schools for three months in the peak of COVID-19 outbreak. Residents of the social institutions – orphans, elderly and people with disabilities are the most severely affected by the current crisis. Emergency food assistance will be provided through WFP’s long-term partnership framework with Ministry of Labour and Social Development and Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic.
“WFP supports the Kyrgyz Government’s efforts to achieve the overall priority of Food Security for all, with specific focus on the vulnerable population. This contribution from the Government of Switzerland is critical to make sure that amidst the severe impact of the crisis we are able to guarantee that no one is left behind, including the most disadvantaged people who lives in closed institutions.
Thanks to the Swiss contribution, WFP will provide each social inpatient institution and boarding school with a 3-month food ration of 75 kg of fortified wheat flour and 8 litres of vitamin-rich oil per person. Such assistance will ensure their access to balanced and nutritious meals, while giving them the possibility of prioritizing some of the available economic resources and use them for addressing other pressing needs such as health, sanitary and hygiene, protection.
As safety, protection, and dignity of the residents in the social institutions are of pivotal importance, WFP will ensure all precautionary measures during food delivery and handling.
“We would like to thank WFP, our long-standing partner for improving the livelihoods of the country’s poorest populations, and the Government of Switzerland for their commitment to support the people of Kyrgyzstan. At this time of crisis, every effort counts to ensure tailored social support to the most vulnerable people,” said Minister of Labour and Social Development, Ulugbek Kochkorov.
WFP, in response to the COVID-19 outbreak, is the United Nations (UN) agency leading the critical sectors of food security and logistics. In this role, WFP is also supporting emergency food distributions to the most vulnerable people across the country to cover their immediate food needs during the crisis.
This assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response of the Emergency Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on March 16, 2020 at the request of the government to assist in emergency preparedness and response to COVID-19 and training to early recovery. Led by the UN Resident Coordinator, the State Committee for Emergency Situations gives priority and directs its support to six priority sectors on early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection and the integrated sector of water sanitation and hygiene and non-food products. The State Committee for Emergencies was established in 2008, and its interagency teams include representatives of ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs, and the donor community.
For more details about the activity of the Swiss Embassy in the Kyrgyz Republic please contact: Tursunai Chodurova, Swiss Embassy/Bishkek, Tel: +996 770 710054, email: tursunai.chodurova@eda.admin.ch
For more information about WFP please contact: Elizabeth Zalkind, WFP/Bishkek, Tel: +996 312 660033, Mobile: +996 555 940 420, email: elizabeth.zalkind@wfp.org

***
The Government of Switzerland provides assistance for the development of the Kyrgyz Republic. Since 1994, Switzerland has granted more than CHF 400 million to Kyrgyzstan (more than KGS 28 billion) in the form of technical, financial and humanitarian support.  For more information, please visit https://www.eda.admin.ch/bishkek.
Follow us on www.facebook.com/SwissEmbassyKyrgyzstan

The United Nations World Food Programme is saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development. WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future.
Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/42734-switzerland-supports-wfp-helping-social-inpatient-institutions-kyrgyzstan-cope-covid-19




Date: 21 April 2020
Title: COVID-19 will double number of people facing food crises unless swift action is taken
Content: 21 April 2020
ROME – The COVID-19 pandemic could almost double the number of people suffering acute hunger, pushing it to more than a quarter of a billion by the end of 2020, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) warned today as it and other partners released a new report on food crises around the world.
The number of people facing acute food insecurity (IPC/CH 3 or worse) stands to rise to 265 million in 2020, up by 130 million from the 135 million in 2019, as a result of the economic impact of COVID-19, according to a WFP projection. The estimate was announced alongside the release of the Global Report on Food Crises, produced by WFP and 15 other humanitarian and development partners.
In this context, it is vital that food assistance programme be maintained, including WFP’s own programmes which offer a lifeline to almost 100 million vulnerable people globally.
KEY DATA
WFP’s Senior Economist, Arif Husain said:
“COVID-19 is potentially catastrophic for millions who are already hanging by a thread. It is a hammer blow for millions more who can only eat if they earn a wage. Lockdowns and global economic recession have already decimated their nest eggs. It only takes one more shock – like COVID-19 – to push them over the edge. We must collectively act now to mitigate the impact of this global catastrophe.”

INTERVIEWS
WFP’s Senior Economist and other senior staff available for interview – please email WFP.Media@wfp.org
WFP’s Global Spokespeople available for interview, see here for full list of media contacts.
MULTIMEDIA ASSETS
Video News Release on South Sudan and threat of COVID-19 available here.
Broadcast quality footage on food crisis countrieshere.
Photos showing food crises countries and impact on COVID-19 available here.
NOTE TO EDITORS
The Global Report on Food Crises, which is based on 2019 data, was released by a network of humanitarian and development partners, the Global Network Against Food Crises, of which WFP is a member.
Full 2020 Global Report on Food Crises available here.
#                                             #                                             #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @wfp_media @wfp
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/42387-covid-19-will-double-number-people-facing-food-crises-unless-swift-action-taken




Date: 17 April 2020
Title: WHO provided the PCR test systems for 6,720 tests to diagnose COVID-19
Content: 17 April 2020
Today, WHO handed over 64 PCR test-systems for 6,720 tests for COVID-19, to the Ministry of Health of Kyrgyzstan. These tests systems will be used for screening studies and confirmation of positive results for COVID-19 obtained using PCR tests of other manufacturers.
This batch of PCR test systems is handed over to the Ministry of Health as humanitarian aid, and this is the third one, as in February and March, 2,600 test kits have already supplied to Kyrgyzstan by WHO as part of the preparedness and rapid detection and response to possible outbreak.
WHO notes that tests for coronavirus COVID-19 should be performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with reverse transcription.  WHO recommends this diagnostic method, since to date, it is the most accurate and reliable method of diagnosing COVID-19 viral infection.  It can identify even a very small amount of the virus RNA in human biological material and helps to detect the disease at an early stage.
In response to the growing COVID-19 pandemic and shortages of laboratory-based molecular testing capacity and reagents, multiple diagnostic test manufacturers have developed and begun selling rapid and easy-to-use devices to facilitate testing outside of laboratory settings. WHO has published a scientific brief “Advice on the use of point-of-care immunodiagnostic tests for COVID-19” (8 April 2020) to emphasize that at present, based on current evidence, WHO recommends the use of these new point-of-care immunodiagnostic tests only in research settings. They should not be used in any other setting, including for clinical decision-making, until evidence supporting use for specific indications is available.Inadequate tests may miss patients with active infection or falsely categorize patients as having the disease when they do not, further hampering disease control efforts.

Information: this assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government to assist her in emergency preparedness and response for COVID-19 and setting a stage for early recovery. Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/41859-who-provided-pcr-test-systems-6720-tests-diagnose-covid-19




Date: 15 April 2020
Title: The World Health Organization (WHO) continues to provide Technical Assistance to Kyrgyzstan in building COVID-19 pandemic preparedness and response measures
Content: 15 April 2020
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan – Due to the unfavorable epidemiological situation and state of emergency, set in certain regions of the Kyrgyz Republic, the WHO calls the population to act responsibly and follow the instructions of the state bodies, and also reminds people of basic precautions to contain the risk of infection or the virus spread, including avoiding close contact with other people, keeping at least one meter away from the sneezing and coughing people, and regular hand washing.
WHO also reminds that people with sickness symptoms should cover their nose and mouth with a bent elbow when coughing and sneezing, or use paper tissues, which should be immediately thrown into closed garbage cans.
Currently WHO Country Office in Kyrgyzstan works shoulder to shoulder with  strategic  partners,  Kyrgyz Republic Ministry of Health, and all other public governance structures, Development Partners and continuously coordinates the response activities in connection with COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The main areas of cooperation are listed below:
WHO coordinates with National and Development Partners
WHO assures supplies of Laboratory Kits and Personal Protective Equipment
WHO improves the capacity of health workers and strengthens the role of laboratories
Risk communication
Information: this assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government to assist her in emergency preparedness and response for COVID-19 and setting a stage for early recovery. Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/41283-world-health-organization-who-continues-provide-technical-assistance-kyrgyzstan-building




Date: 13 April 2020
Title: WHO, together with national partners, has conducted distance learning in Kyrgyzstan for laboratory specialists in diagnosis of COVID-19 coronavirus infection
Content: 13 April 2020
E-learning training cycles in diagnosis of COVID-19 coronavirus infection were completed in Kyrgyzstan for 96 laboratory specialists. This distance training has engaged the local Polymerase Chain Reaction method (PCR) experts from the National TB Center, AIDS Centers, Republican Center for Quarantine & High Pathogen Infections, State Centers for Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance of Bishkek, Jalal-Abad, Osh, Issyk-Kul regions and private laboratories.
The main goal of the e-learning courses was to train laboratory specialists in the basics of Biosafety in laboratory settings and in working with high pathogen and dangerous materials. The participants were  presented a series of training videos, developed by  WHO in the fundamentals of biosafety and PCR testing for COVID - 19, collection, transportation, processing and preparation of samples for further testing.
The distance training covered the basics of PCR tests, regulatory framework as well as regulating the activities of laboratories in the area of COVID-19 diagnosis. Also the training materials and programs on COVID-19 were revised for health workers in Kyrgyzstan.
In March, over 310 health workers from ICUs, Republican Infectious Diseases Hospital, PHC Centers and 2 Military Hospitals attended the two-day specialized training in Clinical Management of COVID-19 patients.
WHO is also planning to make an urgent procurement of necessary PCR supplies for COVID-19 testing for the laboratories of Kyrgyzstan;   soon WHO will arrange referral of positive samples to the Regional Reference Laboratory in England for confirmation and phylogenetic tests of coronaviruses, circulating in Kyrgyzstan.
Information: this assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government to assist her in emergency preparedness and response for COVID-19 and setting a stage for early recovery. Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/40816-who-together-national-partners-has-conducted-distance-learning-kyrgyzstan-laboratory




Date: 08 April 2020
Title: UNDP steps up efforts to contribute to Kyrgyzstan’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 08 April 2020
UNDP in Kyrgyzstan is stepping up efforts to work with the Government, WHO and partners to combat the spread of the coronavirus pandemic and reduce its negative impacts on the Kyrgyz Republic.
In recent days, the UNDP’s Global Fund team has delivered essential personal protective equipment to Ministry of Health first line COVID response doctors and nurses.  This initial support includes 90,000 masks and 2,000 respirators. The Global Fund has just approved the reallocation of another 395,595 USD to purchase 10 ventilators and 6500 rapid COVID19 tests. These new tests allow to rapidly diagnose COVID19 using the GeneXpert machines, previously brought to Kyrgyzstan by the Global Fund for the diagnosis of TB. Masks, test kits and other essential supplies are under the procurement, but conditions are challenging in the face of high global demand.
UNDP is also stepping-up its operations to provide life-saving medical support to vulnerable populations, such as TB and HIV patients who are particularly at risk to secondary infections like COVID-19.  UNDP, with the support of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, procured medical equipment for $ 500,000 at this early stage, building on its strong global procurement network for health and its competent local procurement team. in health for support.
We continue to offer adaptive support to the Government during the prevention, response and recovering phases of the current crisis. The Management Board of Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE) will support the Government to adjust some of the planned activities to fight COVID-19.
“Kyrgyzstan needs to act immediately to prepare, respond, and recover. UNDP will support Kyrgyzstan and people through each stage, with a focus on the most vulnerable as part of its mission to eradicate poverty, reduce inequalities and build resilience to crises and shocks”, said Louise Chamberlain, UNDP Resident Representative.
The spread of COVID-19 is a health crisis but it is not just a health crisis. It is a social, economic and political crisis and UNDP is working closely with the Government to reduce the impact of current global events on vulnerable people.  Impact assessments of socio-economic, including cross-border, impacts have been initiated in partnership with the Ministry of Economy. UNDP is also helping coordinate recovery planning efforts to support national partners' decision-making.  UNDP also has begun to work with a network of innovators and economic experts to fast-track action to support communities meet the COVID-19 challenge and has seconded experts to the countries’ Digital IT Hub to help promote innovative information management tools to help combat the spread of the virus.
As part of its information dissemination efforts, UNDP is also partnering with WHO, and UNICEF and WhatsApp informing the billions on real-time updates on coronavirus.  More information on UNDP’s regional work is available via the Tweet Zero  site, and information on global efforts is accessible via this  website focusing on the worldwide efforts of the agency on combatting the pandemic.
To date, over 200 of COVID-19 cases have been reported in the country.
Stay updated, stay healthy.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/41133-undp-steps-efforts-contribute-kyrgyzstan%E2%80%99s-response-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: UNICEF and the Ministry of Education and Science are supporting the remote learning
Content: 07 April 2020
UNICEF Kyrgyzstan congratulates the Ministry of Education and Science (MoES) and all education sector partners for the hard work done in a short period of time to ensure access to remote learning for all educational levels.
Distance education is due to start  tomorrowas emergency measures were taken by the MoES to allow children to continue progressing in their learning. In addition, last week, the Ministry of Education and Science approved the Anti-Crisis Plan for the Education Sector in response to the COVID-19 pandemic for the last quarter of the academic year 2019-2020.
“It can be a big stress for children to stay at home, away from their usual learning environment: their classromm, teachers and friends”, says Christine Jaulmes, UNICEF Representative in Kyrgyzstan. “School is not only a place to learn, but a place to socialize and interact with peers. We are calling on all parents and caregivers to help their children to adapt  to the new learning methodologies, and to provide them with all necessary support”.
UNICEF provided technical assistance to the MoES in developing remote learning methodology and video lessons for pre-school and school-age children in Russian and Kyrgyz languages with subtitles in Uzbek and Tajik languages and sign language translation that will be broadcast on national TV channels, as well as to be stored on the MoES online portal.
As announced by the Government, starting from today, 8th of April, all pre-school and school children will have access to remote learning:
UNICEF helped coordinate support by partners as  lead of the Education Sector under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU), mandated to coordinate humanitarian response to emergencies under the leadership of the UN Resident Coordinator. UNICEF is working closely with the partners such as Aga-Khan Foundation, GIZ, Soros Foundation, UNESCO and the World Bank to provide all necessary support for continuation of learning for every child in Kyrgyzstan. UNICEF will continue to assist the MoES to mobilize the  required resources to fund  all activities planned under the Anti-Crisis Plan of the MoES.
####
This assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response under the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government to assist the country in emergency preparedness and response to COVID-19 and in preparing for early recovery. Chaired by the UN, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.

For further media request, please contact:
Aiperi Alymbekova, UNICEF Communication Officer
Email: aalymbekova@unicef.org
Tel: +996 777 91 91 43

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/40263-unicef-and-ministry-education-and-science-are-supporting-remote-learning




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: WFP and Ministry of Labor and Social Development will deliver over 1000 tons of food assistance through their joint programme to the most poor and vulnerable families across Kyrgyzstan
Content: 07 April 2020
In April, with support from Russian Federation WFP and Ministry of Labor and Social Development will deliver over 1000 tons of food assistance through their joint programme to the most poor and vulnerable families across Kyrgyzstan. Around 30,500 people will receive 3-month food rations of fortified wheat flour and vegetable oil (150 kg of wheat and 15 liters of oil per family) to cover their immediate food needs during crisis.
WFP and Ministry of Labor and Social Development have this food distribution in support of the Government-led food assistance to low-income population. The Food Assistance is provided in exchange and advance for public work and participation in trainings.
It’s vital that at this time of COVID-19 outbreak, WFP and Ministry of Labor and Social Development continue their food assistance programmes which offer a lifeline to most vulnerable people around Kyrgyzstan.
Necessary preventive measures as recommended by health authorities have been taken to protect the health and safety of beneficiaries and to eliminate the risk of infection. In particular, WFP arranged a safety training for its staff and partners and introduced such measures as social distancing at distribution points and handing out hand sanitizers and masks to all involved in food distribution.
In addition to food assistance, WFP is also supporting regular food price monitoring from 18 markets across the country and food security situation analysis to provide analysis of food security trends and functionality of the food markets.
This assistance is provided as part of the joint humanitarian response of the Emergency Response Coordination Unit, which was activated on March 16, 2020 at the request of the government to assist in emergency preparedness and response to COVID-19 and training to early recovery. Led by the UN Resident Coordinator, the State Committee for Emergency Situations gives priority and directs its support to six priority sectors on early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection and the integrated sector of water sanitation and hygiene and non-food products. The State Committee for Emergencies was established in 2008, and its interagency teams include representatives of ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs, and the donor community.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/40231-wfp-and-ministry-labor-and-social-development-will-deliver-over-1000-tons-food-assistance




Date: 06 April 2020
Title: President Sooronbai Jeenbekov and UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo Discuss COVID-19 Response
Content: 06 April 2020
Resident Coordinator of the United Nations system in the Kyrgyz Republic Ozonnia Ojielo met on 6 April with President Sooronbai Jeenbekov. They discussed the emerging challenges in the country caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the collective efforts made to suppress the spread, limit its impact on the socio-economic situation, and set a stage for early recovery.
The President outlined the measures taken by the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to contain the outbreak and discussed the urgent needs and potential impact of COVID-19 on the budget, the economy and the lives of vulnerable people, emphasizing that this crisis can only be overcome with collective effort.
The UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo informed about the work that is being carried out by the UN in Kyrgyzstan. In particular, he noted that through the Disaster Response Coordination Unit, activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government, the DRCU led the development of Inter-agency Response and Early Recovery Plan across six sectors of response, working closely with national counterparts and development partners. He pointed out that the Response Plan anticipates mobilization of about 51 million USD to support the country in mitigating the health, social and economic impact of COVID-19.
The sides discussed specific measures taken in the areas health and food security and importance of whole-of-society approach to the crisis.
The President expressed his gratitude to the UN for the support to the country and for the programmes that are being implemented. He referenced the humanitarian appeal and the Multi-Partner Trust Fund on the socio-economic crisis launched by the UN Secretary General as crucial mechanisms for supporting countries in dealing with the crisis.
UNRC congratulated the President on Kyrgyzstan’s eliminating statelessness, and highlighted that continuing this approach would enable everyone to come out of the shadows and be counted in the health response, including those in the penitentiary system, which would enable a comprehensive approach so that no one is overlooked, and thereby avoiding a recurrence.
The UN Resident Coordinator expressed the readiness of the UN in Kyrgyzstan to continue supporting the government and people in overcoming the problems caused by the spread of the disease.
About DRCU
Chaired by the UNRC, the DRCU prioritizes and channels its support under six priority sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non-food items (NFI). The DRCU was set up in 2008 and its inter-agency teams comprise representatives of government ministries, UN agencies, international and local NGOs and representatives of donor community.


UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/40615-president-sooronbai-jeenbekov-and-unrc-ozonnia-ojielo-discuss-covid-19-response




Date: 06 April 2020
Title: UNRC and Vice Prime Minister Discuss Ongoing COVID-19 Response
Content: 06 April 2020
UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo and WHO Representative Nazira Artykova met on 6 April with Vice Prime Minister Aida Ismailova to discuss the ongoing collective efforts in response to the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country.
The Vice Prime Minister noted that the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic is making every possible effort to prevent the further spread of the coronavirus infection. UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo expressed the readiness of the UN system in the country to support the Government and people of Kyrgyzstan.
“We are ready to provide the necessary assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic, especially when the country is faced with such an emergency situation. The Disaster Response Coordination Unit has now been activated to coordinate responses across six interconnected sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non food items (NFI),” UNRC stated.
The representative of the World Health Organization, Nazira Artykova, presented WHO recommendations regarding the diagnosis and treatment of coronavirus infection.
The sides also discussed the urgent measures that will help address the impact of the outbreak on the socio-economic situation in the country and the importance of leaving no one behind.
The Vice Prime Minister Aida Ismailova expressed gratitude to the UN and partners for their assistance and cooperation.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/40616-unrc-and-vice-prime-minister-discuss-ongoing-covid-19-response




Date: 04 April 2020
Title: State Secretary of the Ministry of Emergency Situations Azamat Mambetov and UNRC Ozonnia Ojielo Discuss COVID-19 Response
Content: 04 April 2020
On April 4, 2020, the Chairman of the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU) / UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo met with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic, Mr. Azamat Mambetov, to discuss coordination of actions within the framework of the COVID-19 response plan and early recovery and implementation of emergency response measures.
DRCU members will be reorienting their available resources and mobilizing additional funding to ensure full and effective implementation of the response plan by coordination of responses across 6 interconnected sectors: early recovery, education, food security and logistics, health, protection, and joint sector for water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and non food items (NFI).
The DRCU was activated on 16 March 2020 following the request of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. In small and medium-sized emergencies, the Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU) takes responsibility for coordinating and planning a multi-sectoral response. The Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU) was established in 2008 under the leadership of the UN Resident Coordinator by the international humanitarian community in the Kyrgyz Republic, it includes the heads of UN agencies, the Red Cross / Red Crescent Movement, international organizations and NGOs.
The United Nations National Advisor on Disaster Response  supports the Disaster Response Coordination Unit as the Secretariat. DRCU is an advisory and consultative mechanism, the main purpose of which is to coordinate the humanitarian response to emergencies and / or at the request of the Government of Kyrgyzstan and to expand cooperation between partners of the DRCU and other key participants.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/41284-state-secretary-ministry-emergency-situations-azamat-mambetov-and-unrc-ozonnia-ojielo-discuss




Date: 28 March 2020
Title: Don’t let COVID19 become a hunger game
Content: 28 March 2020
Keeping global food chains alive is crucial amid COVID-19 crisis
The COVID-19 pandemic is putting enormous strains on the public health systems around the world, and millions of people in the world’s most advanced economies are in some form of quarantine.
We know the human toll will be high, and that massive efforts to turn the tide carry a heavy economic cost.
To reduce the risk of an even greater toll - shortage of food for millions, even in affluent countries - the world must take immediate actions to minimize disruptions to food supply chains.
A globally coordinated and coherent response is needed to prevent this public health crisis from triggering a food crisis in which people cannot find or afford food.
For now, COVID-19 has not entailed any strain on food security, despite anecdotal reports of crowded supermarket sieges.
While there’s no need for panic - there is enough supply of food in the world to feed everyone – we must face the challenge: an enormous risk that food may not be made available where it is needed.
The COVID-19 outbreak, with all the accompanying closures and lockdowns, has created logistical bottlenecks that ricochet across the long value chains of the modern global economy.
Restrictions of movement, as well as basic aversion behavior by workers, may impede farmers from farming and food processors (who handle most agricultural products) from processing. Shortage of fertilizers, veterinary medicines and other input could also affect agricultural production.
Closures of restaurants and less frequent grocery shopping diminish demand for fresh produce and fisheries products, affecting producers and suppliers, especially smallholder farmers, with long-term consequences for the world’s increasingly urbanized population, be they in Manhattan or Manila.
Uncertainty about food availability can induce policymakers to implement trade restrictive measures in order to safeguard national food security.
Given the experience of the 2007-2008 global food price crisis, we know that such measures can only exacerbate the situation.
Export restrictions put in place by exporting countries to increase food availability domestically could lead to serious disruptions in the world food market, resulting in price spikes and increased price volatility.
In 2007-2008, these immediate measures proved extremely damaging, especially for low income food deficit countries and to the efforts of humanitarian organizations to procure supplies for the needy and vulnerable.
We should all learn from our recent past and not make the same mistakes twice.
Policy makers must take care to avoid accidentally tightening food-supply conditions.
While every country faces its own challenges, collaboration – between governments and the full gamut of sectors and stakeholders - is paramount. We are experiencing  a global problem that requires a global response.
We must ensure that food markets are functioning properly and that information on prices, production, consumption and stocks of food is available to all in real time. This approach will reduce uncertainty and allow producers, consumers, traders and processors to make informed decisions and to contain unwarranted panic behavior in global food markets.
The health impacts of the unfolding COVID-19 pandemic on some of the poorest countries are still unknown. Yet, we can say with certainty that any ensuing food crisis as a result of poor policy making will be a humanitarian disaster that we can avert.
We already have 113 million people experiencing acute hunger; in sub-Saharan Africa, a quarter of the population is undernourished. Any disruptions to food supply chains will intensify both human suffering and the challenge of reducing hunger around the world.
We must do everything possible to not let that happen. Prevention costs less. Global markets are critical for smoothening supply and demand shocks across countries and regions, and we need to work together to ensure that disruptions of food supply chains are minimized as much as possible.
COVID-19 forcefully reminds us that solidarity is not charity, but common sense.

QU Dongyu
Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
Rome, 28th March 2020
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/39483-don%E2%80%99t-let-covid19-become-hunger-game




Date: 12 March 2020
Title: UN Calls for Civic Dialogue on Women’s Rights in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 12 March 2020
In his Independence Speech on 31 August 2019 on Ala Too square, President Sooronbai Jeenbekov Sharipovich stated that Kyrgyzstan faces the need to deal not only with national issues, but also to confront global challenges. He said the country’s objective is to live in a modern society and a prosperous state powered by human potential and freedom. He called for building a country, where everyone could live comfortably and where freedom is a source of development.
During his last visits to the EU and the UN General Assembly, the President stated it is not easy to build a genuine democracy, but noted that it is the only path the people of Kyrgyzstan have chosen and that Kyrgyzstan would continuously reinforce democratic principles in developing the country, with the state governance focusing on the needs of every person, provision of rights, freedoms, and equality in the society.
The Kyrgyz Republic is planning to submit the Voluntary National Report (VNR) in July 2020 on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. The core element of the case being made for the VNR is about democracy consolidation, the work of the institutions of the state towards implementing the SDGs to ensure the fullest realization of rights and opportunities for the citizens. The core element of the SDGs is ‘Leave No One Behind’ (LNOB) which requires inclusion, participation and voice for all segments of society in their national affairs.
The UN is therefore extremely concerned at recent trends which seek to undermine the promise of the SDGs, of voice and participation for women, and to constrain the space for civic action in the Kyrgyz Republic. This has manifested in increasing cases of domestic violence, intolerance, hatred and violence against women’s groups, activists and civic organizations. The culmination of this were the actions of masked men in targeting peaceful demonstrators on 8 March this year in the full presence of security agencies. Instead of arresting the masked men, the law enforcement representatives went ahead to arrest the marchers.
It is not only the obligation of the state to offer protection from violence and from threats of violence to all citizens. When the state agencies fail to act against the perpetrators of intimidation and violence, they create the unintended impression in the minds of the public that those masked men and all those perpetuating hate and intolerance have the support of the state. The UN does not believe that this is the case. That’s why it is absolutely important for state institutions to do their work judiciously to ensure that every citizen feels protected irrespective of their status in society.
Whatever issues divide and polarize any society they can only be resolved through debate and dialogue, not through violence. The UN encourages the Parliament and the Government to create the space for meaningful dialogue between citizens and state institutions, and among the society in the Kyrgyz Republic. The women’s activists and any groups opposed to them each has a right to be heard. But they should be heard in situations free from violence, hatred or intolerance. It is only through such dialogue that a real Kyrgyzstani citizenship will emerge, a society that respects and appreciates the diversity of its constituent parts. We call on the MPs and the Government to demonstrate leadership that enables the space for dialogues to be created. The UN stands ready to support such dialogues.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/37676-un-calls-civic-dialogue-women%E2%80%99s-rights-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 07 March 2020
Title: Press Statement by the United Nations System in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 07 March 2020
On this occasion of the International Women’s Day 2020, the United Nations System in the Kyrgyz Republic congratulates all the women, mothers and girls of the Kyrgyz Republic!
We join the women and men of Kyrgyzstan in celebrating the progress made on women’s rights issues through the extra-ordinary acts of courage and determination shown by women across the country in the development of the country and in your communities. We stand with you in working together to address the challenges that still remain.
The global theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is, I am Generation Equality: Realizing Women’s Rights. The theme is aligned with a new multigenerational campaign, Generation Equality, which marks the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action.This important day therefore calls on all of us, everyone, everywhere to uphold gender equality as a necessity in upholding human rights across all generations. Gender equality is a fundamental condition for realizing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Kyrgyz Republic has made commendable steps on gender equality and women’s empowerment by enacting into law important legislation on prohibiting and punishing ala-kachuu, criminalization of domestic violence and securing gender quota for women in local councils. These important steps send a strong message to citizens and to the global community about the commitments of the State to promote and protect the rights of women and girls.
On this day, the United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic welcomes the joining of hands to confront domestic violence against women and girls, to denounce rhetoric of intolerance, physical and verbal abuse against women activists and rights defenders.
The United Nations will continue to support the Kyrgyz Republic to fulfil its obligations under international human rights law and its national laws to prevent and prohibit all forms of discrimination and violence and to strengthen conditions for freedom of expression and peaceful assembly.
“On this day, the United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic celebrates the diversity of women and all forms of women’s free expression in all official, professional and private spheres” said Ozonnia Ojielo, United Nations Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic.
In line with this commitment, the United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic calls on the Government and all stakeholders to celebrate and strengthen the protection of the rights of all women in public and private spheres.
The United Nations stands ready to continue supporting the Kyrgyz Republic’s efforts to protect and promote equal participation for all members in society, ensuring that no one is left behind.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/37205-press-statement-united-nations-system-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 28 February 2020
Title: UN and National Partners Complete First Round Of Consultations For Joint Work Until 2022
Content: 28 February 2020
On 28 February, the United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic concluded the first round of consultations with national partners on the joint priorities for the period of 2020-2022.
The period of 2020-2022 covers the second half of United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) 2018-2022, a major document signed in May 2017 by the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and the United Nations to guide the joint work and partnerships.
As planned in the UNDAF, the UN plans to contribute about $230 million to Kyrgyzstan’s development within 2018-2022 through four main priorities with respective outcomes, identified jointly with the Government, the UN, civil society, and other development partners:
The consultations, which began on 18 February 2020, will take place around each priority area involving respective ministries, government, CSOs and private sector and UN agencies. In addition to helping embed strategic development goals into the programmatic work, the exercise is aimed at strengthening cross sectoral coordination and identifying immediate indicators of joint UN-Government progress, which should serve as a compass throughout the period until 2022. During the consultations, the participants also refreshed their knowledge on result-based management with a view to leave no one behind and reach the farthest behind first.
In addition to identifying joint priorities and work plans, the UN agencies, the ministries, and government agencies will discuss lessons learnt from the joint-work planning process in 2018-2019 and review the achieved results.
A co-chair of the result group I, Marat Yusupov, representative of UNIDO, discussed the results of the first half of UNDAF and stated that the joint commitment of UN Agencies in Kyrgyzstan has been critical in opening up a better dialogue among stakeholders and has ensured that each activity focuses on people - especially women, children and the most vulnerable. He noted that a three-fold approach to support people, institutions and policy makers contributes to economic growth, decent work, and promote labour opportunities.
“It is a good opportunity for dialogue and to accelerate action towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals,” said deputy Resident Representative of UNDP Jenty Kirsch-Wood, who co-chairs the result group on UNDAF priority II. As part of this priority area the UN worked for the benefit of key groups, including women, children, and vulnerable communities by supporting Kyrgyzstan in a wide range of development areas, including by helping the Parliament improve its oversight functions, strengthening rule of law and statistical capacity of state institutions and helping them better deliver their services to the whole population and improving engagement with vulnerable communities.
In terms of priority III, the UN works with the partners to introduce key documents including a number of key documents in such areas as forestry development, protection of population from natural disasters, pasture management, while helping to restore over 7 thousand hectares of forest land, conducted emergency drills in 119 schools, and improved access to water for 115,300 women and men, and created over 200 demo plots on climate-friendly agriculture and innovative technologies.
As for the priority IV, with the support of the UN during 2018-2020 Kyrgyzstan ratified the Convention on the rights of people with disabilities and became the first country which addressed statelessness by providing 13,700 people, including over 2,000 children with documents; over 20,000 people trained to consult vulnerable farmers.
The UN system in Kyrgyzstan will continue national consultations throughout March-April, 2020 with all stakeholders of the UNDAF. Once the joint work plans are finalized, they will be endorsed by the Joint Steering Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister and the UN Resident Coordinator, by June 2020.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/36932-un-and-national-partners-complete-first-round-consultations-joint-work-until-2022




Date: 26 February 2020
Title: HOT MEALS PROGRAMME IN KYRGYZSTAN EXPANDED WITH FINANCIAL SUPPORT FROM JAPAN
Content: 26 February 2020
BISHKEK – Eight rural schools in Osh and Jalal-Abad provinces have been able to start serving daily hot meals to some 4,000 primary school students, thanks to funding from Japan, technical support from the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and local implementing partner, the Training and Extension System (TES) Centre.
This expansion of the school feeding programme is being undertaken within the framework of the national School Meals Optimization initiative.
The Japanese contribution of 6.25 million Kyrgyz som (approximately US$90,000) to Kyrgyzstan has helped the schools buy industrial kitchen equipment including electric stoves, multi-deck ovens, dough-mixing machines, refrigerators and water boilers.
WFP has complemented the funding by training school chefs and providing technical support on the design of the meals, school dining rooms, and improving water and electricity supply to the schools.
To date, support from Japan has helped provide support to about 9,000 school children in Kyrgyzstan’s rural schools.
“WFP is working hard to ensure that every primary school student in Kyrgyzstan receives a daily nutritious lunch,” said WFP Kyrgyz Republic Country Director Andrea Bagnoli. “Good nutrition is essential if children are to reach their full potential at school, out of school and later in life as productive adults. We’re proud that WFP’s work to improve the national school feeding programme is receiving support from the government and donors such as Japan.”
School Meals Optimization, launched by WFP and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in 2013, currently benefits about 40 percent of Kyrgyzstan’s 500,000 primary school students and receives critical support from national and local authorities, communities and donors. By 2022, WFP and the Kyrgyz Government plan to reach all young students in all primary schools in the country with nutritious hot meals.
In 2019, Japan contributed US$712,000 to WFP in Kyrgyzstan to strengthen the capacity of smallholder farmers to establish food processing facilities for local, regional and external markets.

#                           #                            #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/36036-hot-meals-programme-kyrgyzstan-expanded-financial-support-japan




Date: 26 February 2020
Title: The cost of a nutritious diet for nutrition programs assessed In Kyrgyzstan
Content: 26 February 2020
Bishkek - The United Nations World Food Program (WFP) in the Kyrgyz Republic presented the results of a large-scale assessment of “Filling the nutrient gap” based on estimates of the cost of diets. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic for Social Affairs Altynay Omurbekova, representatives of the ministries of health, education, agriculture, social development, the National Statistical Committee, civil society and international organizations attended the seminar to discuss the results of the study.
A mathematical modeling tool (linear programming) was used for analysis, which allows to calculate the minimum cost of an energy (only 2100 kcal) and nutritious diet (proteins, energy and 13 micronutrients) using locally produced food.
The study was conducted to analyze the cost of the diet, which meets all the requirements for the content of nutrients in each region of the country and estimates the proportion of the population with access to good nutrition. In addition, the tool allowed the barriers in the consumption of necessary nutrients to be analyzed and model measures to improve access to a nutritious diet.
“The government of Kyrgyzstan prioritizes the eradication of all forms of malnutrition as factors of socioeconomic regression, for this purpose we adopted the Food Security and Nutrition Program,” said Altynay Omurbekova, Deputy Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic for Social Affairs, during the presentation of the research results. “We recognize the importance of a high-quality, evidence-based analysis of nutritional problems for a timely response and we are grateful to our partners for the initiative to calculate the cost of good nutrition.”
The analysis revealed that almost all households in the country can afford an energy diet that provides 2100 kcal per person per day. However, a full-fledged diet covering energy, protein and 13 nutrient requirements will cost a family of 5 people almost 4.5 times more expensive and will be available only for three out of five households in the country.
Experts also found that eating disorders, although directly related to household incomes and the availability of food, cannot be eradicated only by increasing incomes and improving access to and availability of nutritious foods in family diets. To solve these problems, comprehensive measures are required in the fields of education, health, agriculture and social protection, as well as programs for the development of healthy eating habits. For example, it is necessary to enrich food products (flour and salt), implement micronutrient supplementation programs for vulnerable groups (iron and folic acid) and school nutrition, and strengthen social protection measures (benefits and social contracts). When combining these measures, you can significantly increase the number of families with access to a nutritious diet - up to 95% of families.
“Only through joint efforts and multisectoral programs we can solve the problems of malnutrition,” said Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Country Director for Kyrgyzstan. “Comprehensive measures will eliminate the triple burden and will contribute to the development of human capital in the country and create conditions for vulnerable families to fully reveal their potential.”
Follow us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/36040-cost-nutritious-diet-nutrition-programs-assessed-kyrgyzstan




Date: 22 February 2020
Title: UN and Government partners work on joint priorities for 2020-2022
Content: 22 February 2020
On 21 February the United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic held national consultations with national partners to discuss achievements of Joint Work Plans implemented during 2018-2019 within UNDAF 2018-2022 for Priority 1 on Sustainable and Inclusive Economic Growth.
The consultations will help identify priorities for the next round of Joint Work Plans of the Kyrgyz Government and the UN for 2020-2022. This period covers the second half of the implementation of the United Nation Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF), which is the major document signed in May, 2017 by the Government and the UN to guide the work of the Government, UN Country Team, and their partnerships for 2018-2022.
UNDAF has four main priorities with respective outcomes, identified jointly with the Government, the UN, civil society, and other development partners:
The co-chair of the Result Group for Sustainable and Inclusive Economic Growth, Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Country Director, noted that this workshop allows the UN and the Government to imbed strategic development goals into the programmatic work. Pointing out that the Decade of Action until 2030 calls for ambitious actions to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, Andrea Bagnoli stressed on the importance of this exercise for cross sectoral coordination and for identifying immediate indicators of joint progress, which should serve as a compass throughout the period until 2022. He noted that resources are limited, and therefore the activities should be driven by the principles of leaving no one behind and reaching the farthest behind first.
Another co-chare of the result group, Marat Yusupov, representative of UNIDO, discussed the results of the first half of UNDAF and stated that the joint commitment of UN Agencies in Kyrgyzstan has been critical in opening up a better dialogue among stakeholders and has ensured that each activity focuses on people - especially women, children and the most vulnerable. He noted that a three-fold approach to support people, institutions and policy makers contributes to economic growth, decent work, and promote labour opportunities.
He pointed out that within 2017-2020 more than USD 20 million has been committed by development partners to ensure the implementation of more than 70 identified activities that jointly with civil society, academia, research institutions, and the private sector to achieve the objective of positively affecting the lives of 350,000 women, men and children.
Each UNDAF four priority areas require similar consultations on achievements of JWPs 2018-2020 and developing respective work plans for 2020-2022. On 18 February, the Result group on Environment, Climate Change, and Disaster Management also held such consultations. The UN system in Kyrgyzstan will continue national consultations throughout February- March, 2020 with all stakeholders of the UNDAF.
In addition to identifying joint priorities and work plans, the UN agencies, the ministries, and government agencies will review lessons learnt from the joint-work planning process in 2018-2019. Once the joint work plans are finalized, they will be endorsed by the Joint Steering Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister and the UN Resident Coordinator, by June 2020.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/35774-un-and-government-partners-work-joint-priorities-2020-2022




Date: 06 February 2020
Title: WFP makes first local food purchase from small-scale Kyrgyz farmers
Content: 06 February 2020
BISHKEK – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has for the first time bought wheat grain from small-scale farmers in Kyrgyzstan as part of a unique initiative to connect poorer farmers to markets.
The pilot initiative ‘Empowering Local Smallholder Farmers’ was made possible thanks to funding from the UN Peacebuilding Fund. Ithas supported 100 low-income farmers in Osh and Batken provinces.
WFP has selected low-income farmers who would otherwise not be able to sell their small wheat harvest at market price. They were selected according to vulnerability criteria such as family income rates, family size, number of children and presence of people with disabilities.
Small-scale farmers in Kyrgyzstan produce low volumes of harvest and struggle with poor logistics infrastructure. In addition, buyers do not visit them to collect the grain which forces them to deliver wheat to milling companies or middlemen. This significantly lowers their earnings.
“We are working to build sustainable food systems in Kyrgyzstan, which ensures that high-quality, locally-grown food is available to everyone, no matter what their income levels are,” said WFP Country Director in Kyrgyzstan Andrea Bagnoli. “Smallholder farmers, who produce most of Kyrgyzstan’s food, are critical to building such systems. Through this initiative we are creating a guaranteed market for their crops and supporting their resilience and food security.”
By purchasing smallholder farmers’ wheat harvest at competitive market prices, WFP is helping them invest their profits in boosting their production and becoming competitive players in the marketplace.
WFP uses this locally purchased wheat in its food assistance programmes inside the country. WFP projects include providing food assistance to vulnerable communities through including them in rural infrastructure improvements and skills training opportunities.
After laboratory tests for nutritional properties and quality, milling, blending with other wheat varieties and fortification, WFP received 180 tons of high-quality fortified wheat flour which was used as incentives for its Food-for-Assets and Food-for-Training activities in Osh and Batken Provinces.
Over 800 direct beneficiaries in Osh and Batken provinces have received locally produced food for participating in WFP field projects including the rehabilitation of drinking/irrigation water facilities in border areas of Batken Province. Such activities directly or indirectly reduce the drivers of conflict over natural resources in multi-ethnic communities and promoted peaceful cross-border economic relations.
“Symbolically, food from local farmers promotes peace and development in border areas of Kyrgyzstan as it triggered inter-community dialogue and collaboration for joint planning and implementation of projects that address access to critical resources such as water,” added Bagnoli.
In the Kyrgyz Republic, through its current five-year plan, WFP aims to improve access to nutritious food for all primary schoolchildren across the country and support over 100,000 poor families – particularly women – in the most underdeveloped communities with a view to improving people’s livelihoods and their ability to cope with disasters and climate change.
#                           #                            #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/WorldFoodProgrammeKyrgyzstan/
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/33879-wfp-makes-first-local-food-purchase-small-scale-kyrgyz-farmers




Date: 04 December 2019
Title: UN expert visits Kyrgyzstan to assess rights of minorities
Content: 04 December 2019
The UN Special Rapporteur on minority issues, Fernand de Varennes, will visit Kyrgyzstan from 6 to 17 December 2019 to gather first-hand information on the situation of minorities, and to identify good practices as well as key areas that require improvement.
He will look at laws, policies and practices that affect persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, with issues including equality and non-discrimination, effective participation and representation, access to quality education and the status of minority languages, including sign language.
He will also explore the situation of religious minorities, and measures to address hate speech and incitement to inter-ethnic and religious hatred.
“I look forward to engaging with the authorities, civil society and others to assess the legislative, institutional and policy framework for promoting and protecting the human rights of minorities,” said de Varennes.
“This constructive dialogue will identify good practices as well as areas for improvement in the country’s efforts to ensure full implementation of its international human rights commitments.”
During his 12-day mission, the Special Rapporteur will travel to the capital Bishkek and to other regions where minorities live, Osh, Jalal-Abad and Batken. He will meet senior government and regional officials, representatives of civil society and members of minorities, including of the deaf community.
At the end of his visit, on Tuesday 17 December 2019, de Varennes will share his preliminary findings and recommendations at a news conference at the UN House, 160 Chui Avenue, Bishkek 720040, at 12:00 local time. Access will be strictly limited to journalists.
The Special Rapporteur will present a comprehensive report of his visit to a forthcoming session of the UN Human Rights Council.

Mr. Fernand de Varennes was appointed as UN Special Rapporteur on minority issues by the Human Rights Council in June 2017. He is tasked by the UN Human Rights Council, to promote the implementation of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, among other things.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
Read the UN Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities.
UN Human Rights country page: Kyrgyzstan
For inquiries and media requests, please contact:
Ms Iulia Votslava (+996 312 388 249 / ivotslava@ohchr.org ), or
Mr. Damianos Serefidis (+41 79 752 04 81 / dserefidis@ohchr.org)
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts please contact:
Mr. Jeremy Laurence (+41 22 917 9383 / jlaurence@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in? Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today. #Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/27666-un-expert-visits-kyrgyzstan-assess-rights-minorities




Date: 04 December 2019
Title: The United Nations encourages Kyrgyzstan to foster public debate on gender equality and women’s human rights, free of intolerance and hatred
Content: 04 December 2019
The United Nations in the Kyrgyz Republic takes note of current debates on gender equality in the country, coinciding with the worldwide 16-days campaign calling for the elimination of all forms of gender-based violence against women. Under the leadership of the UN Secretary-General and supported by all UN Member States, the campaign raises awareness about gender equality and gender-based violence as a core human rights issue.
Against this backdrop, the United Nations expresses concern about alarming incidents of intolerance, hate speech and calls to violence, in the wake of the Bishkek-based art exhibition ‘Feminnale’. The art event sparked polarizing discussions, which regrettably descended into numerous instances of deplorable verbal abuse and death threats against artists, women activists and rights defenders.
“Public debate on all societal issues goes hand in hand with growth and development of all modern states. States carry an overriding obligation to ensure that such debate is free from incitement to hatred and violence against women and all groups in society”, said Ozonnia Ojielo, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan.
Recognizing positive developments in legislation concerning the promotion of gender equality in the past few years, the United Nations encourages the Kyrgyz Republic to fulfil its existing obligation under international human rights law and its national laws to prevent and prohibit incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence. In line with this commitment, the Kyrgyz Republic is to actively foster an environment in which women and vulnerable groups can safely voice their concerns, freely participate in the public sphere and make use of their right to expression.
The United Nations stands ready to support the government’s continued efforts to protect and promote equal participation for all members in society, ensuring that no one is left behind.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/27077-united-nations-encourages-kyrgyzstan-foster-public-debate-gender-equality-and-women%E2%80%99s-human




Date: 08 October 2019
Title: Sports Unite: Central Asian Customs Officers Team Up in a Football Tournament under the Global Container Control Programme
Content: 08 October 2019
“Central Asian Port Control Units Team Up” was the slogan of a friendly football tournament conducted on the margins of the Regional Workshop on Intellectual Property Rights “Combatting Counterfeiting and Piracy” under the UNODC-World Customs Organization (WCO) Global Container Control Programme (CCP) in Cholpon-Ata on 27-29 August 2019.

The tournament was organized by the State Customs Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic as part of team building exercise and aimed to strengthen regional cooperation among Customs and border control officers of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.
“Sport has always been a good mean to unite people, build teams and promote practical cooperation in achieving common objectives. We believe this tournament is not an exception for an enhanced regional cooperation among Customs Authorities of Central Asia”, emphasized Mr. Almaz Saliev, Deputy Head of Customs Control Department of Kyrgyz Customs Service.
UNODC Regional Programme Coordinator Mr. Batyr Geldiyev thanked the State Customs Service of Kyrgyzstan for the initiative and stressed that this tournament is another platform for promoting the network of border control agencies in the region. He referred to the Memorandum of Understanding on Inter-Regional Network of Customs Authorities and Port Control Units signed on 22 May 2019 in Tashkent.
During award ceremony when Uzbekistan’s team won the first place, the participants expressed their interest in conducting “Central Asian Customs Cup” on a regular basis as part of the regional team building.
The CCP Regional Segment for Central Asia is funded by the Government of Japan and the U.S. Department of State Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL), and the Export Control and Related Border Security (EXBS) Programme.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/26850-sports-unite-central-asian-customs-officers-team-football-tournament-under-global-container




Date: 27 September 2019
Title: UNODC supports Kyrgyzstan to enhance the quality of forensic expertise in criminal cases related to extremism and terrorism
Content: 27 September 2019
During the past years, courts of Kyrgyzstan have handed down hundreds of guilty verdicts for terrorism and extremism related crimes. Between 2014 and 2016, 171 persons were convicted for incitement of national, inter-ethnic, racial, inter-religious, inter-regional hatred. 71 persons were convicted for acquisition, production, possession, distribution, transportation and transmission of extremist material. Human rights experts and lawyers have expressed concern regarding adherence to fair trial standards in such cases, which revealed an urgent need for standardized and scientific approaches to the determination of extremist content and the quality of related forensic expertise.
To strengthen capacity of forensic experts in this field, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) partnered with the State Forensic Service of the Kyrgyz Republic to hold a three-day training for some 30 governmental and independent experts on the provision of psycho-linguistic and religious expertise in extremism and terrorism related cases.  The training was conducted on the basis of the Methodological manual for conducting a comprehensive judicial psycho-linguistic and religious expertise in the Kyrgyz Republic, the 2nd edition of which was released with the support of UNODC.
“Applying best international experience is critical in ensuring that psycho-linguistic and religious expertise is provided in criminal cases related to extremism and terrorism in line with established quality management procedures and judgements are based on sufficient and appropriate evidence”, stated Mr. Andrey Seleznev, Head of the UNODC Program Office in in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The training course aimed at increasing the capacity of forensic experts to conduct psycho-linguistic and religious expertise of texts that are submitted to court as evidence to support claims related to incitement of racial, ethnic, nationalistic, religious or interregional hatred.
Two experts from the Russian Federation, Ms. Elizaveta Koltunova, Ph.D., a linguist, associate professor of the Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics, Institute of Philology and Journalism under the Lobachevsky State University of Nizhni Novgorod and member of the scientific methodological union of Linguistic Experts’ Guild on documentary and informational disputes and Mr. Sergey Davidov, Ph.D., a psychologist and associate professor at the Department of General and Social Psychology of the Lobachevsky State University of Nizhni Novgorod along with Ms. Indira Aslanova, UNODC  expert, shared their knowledge and experience in conducting psycho-linguistic and religious expertise.
“This is the first training that we conduct with experts from the Kyrgyz Republic. We gathered linguists, psychologists and religious scholars today. Cases of extremism and terrorism are very relevant now and we would like the training to improve the experts’ skills to ensure that examinations are evidence-based, reasonable and reliable. Only in this case, Kyrgyzstan’s law enforcement and judicial practice in terrorism and extremism related cases, including the forensic services provided in such cases, will develop in line with international standards”, outlined Mrs. Elizaveta Koltunova.
Training participants gained knowledge on the role and place of forensic expertise in cases involving extremist materials and the basic requirements and scientific procedures to produce such expertise. They examined linguistic, psychological and religious signs of calls for violent extremist and terrorist activity, as well as incitement of hatred on various grounds. In addition, the participating experts engaged in practical group exercises to review cases, present outcomes and defend received results.
The training course was conducted within the framework of the project “Support to the prevention of radicalization to violence in prisons and probation settings in the Kyrgyz Republic”, which is implemented by UNODC and UNDP with funding from the United Nations Peacebuilding Fund.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/26851-unodc-supports-kyrgyzstan-enhance-quality-forensic-expertise-criminal-cases-related-extremism




Date: 25 July 2019
Title: The UN welcomes the adoption of the Food Security and Nutrition Programme in Kyrgyzstan for 2019-2023
Content: 25 July 2019
WHO, WFP, FAO and UNICEF together with partners from government and civil sectors, academia and the business community participated in the development of a food security and nutrition programme. The new programme serves as a road map for the full realization of the rights of the people to good nutrition and health and development.
“UN agencies are happy to unite efforts with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in order to improve the physical and economic access of the population, especially the most vulnerable groups, to food and create conditions for their productive life,” stressed Andrea Bagnoli, Country Director of WFP Kyrgyz Republic.
“We will continue to work with communities in remote areas and government to ensure zero hunger and improved access to nutrition. Kyrgyzstan has made progress on several nutrition challenges, but there is work to be done.  Stunting rates remain moderately high at 12%. This needs to change to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 2”, remarked Munir Mammadzade, Acting Representative of UNICEF in Kyrgyzstan.
Since food security is one of the main priorities of the country's sustainable development and national security, a factor in maintaining its statehood and food independence, the programme includes a wide range of tasks in such sectors as agriculture, health care, education and social protection.
“The UN Agencies are committed to support the implementation of the Food Security and Nutrition Programme in the Kyrgyz Republic for 2019–2023 in order to achieve the strategic priorities of sustainable development, ensure the country's food security and promptly respond to internal and external threats to the stability of the domestic food market,” noted Dinara Rakhmanova, Deputy Representative of FAO in Kyrgyzstan.
The priority tasks of the food security and nutrition program of the Kyrgyz Republic for 2019-2023. will stimulate domestic production of basic food products due to the growth of agricultural efficiency, monitoring food stocks and the sustainability of foreign trade. This will improve the availability and affordability of food for the population. It should be noted that the programme aims to ensure the availability of food to socially vulnerable segments of the population due to the growth of income of poor families, state regulation of prices for basic foodstuffs, and the development of food assistance systems.
The programme aims to improve the nutritional status of the population by eradicating all forms of malnutrition and malnutrition and ensuring food safety. In addition, the programme clearly aligns with the global World Health Assembly targets improving maternal, infant and young child nutrition.
To achieve the objectives of the Programme, all available sources of funding will be mobilized. The main source of funding will be the funds of the republican and local budgets, which in the medium term will be directed to the implementation of specific measures and projects within the framework of the identified priorities. In addition, constructive engagement with development partners for technical and financial support is planned.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/14121-un-welcomes-adoption-food-security-and-nutrition-programme-kyrgyzstan-2019-2023




Date: 24 July 2019
Title: World hunger is still not going down after three years and obesity is still growing – UN report
Content: 24 July 2019
15 July 2019, New York – An estimated 820 million people did not have enough to eat in 2018, up from 811 million in the previous year, which is the third year of increase in a row. This underscores the immense challenge of achieving the Sustainable Development Goal of Zero Hunger by 2030, says a new edition of the annual The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World report released today.
The pace of progress in halving the number of children who are stunted and in reducing the number of babies born with low birth weight is too slow, which also puts the SDG 2 nutrition targets further out of reach, according to the report.
At the same time, adding to these challenges, overweight and obesity continue to increase in all regions, particularly among school-age children and adults.
The chances of being food insecure are higher for women than men in every continent, with the largest gap in Latin America.
“Our actions to tackle these troubling trends will have to be bolder, not only in scale but also in terms of multisectoral collaboration,” the heads of the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the World Food Programme (WFP) and the World Health Organization (WHO) urged in their joint foreword to the report.
Hunger is increasing in many countries where economic growth is lagging, particularly in middle-income countries and those that rely heavily on international primary commodity trade. The annual UN report also found that income inequality is rising in many of the countries where hunger is on the rise, making it even more difficult for the poor, vulnerable or marginalized to cope with economic slowdowns and downturns.
“We must foster pro-poor and inclusive structural transformation focusing on people and placing communities at the centre to reduce economic vulnerabilities and set ourselves on track to ending hunger, food insecurity and all forms of malnutrition,” the UN leaders said.
Slow progress in Africa and Asia
The situation is most alarming in Africa, as the region has the highest rates of hunger in the world and which are continuing to slowly but steadily rise in almost all subregions. In Eastern Africa in particular, close to a third of the population (30.8 percent) is undernourished. In addition to climate and conflict, economic slowdowns and downturns are driving the rise. Since 2011, almost half the countries where rising hunger occurred due to economic slowdowns or stagnation were in Africa.
The largest number of undernourished people (more than 500 million) live in Asia, mostly in southern Asian countries. Together, Africa and Asia bear the greatest share of all forms of malnutrition, accounting for more than nine out of ten of all stunted children and over nine out of ten of all wasted children worldwide. In southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, one child in three is stunted.
In addition to the challenges of stunting and wasting, Asia and Africa are also home to nearly three-quarters of all overweight children worldwide, largely driven by consumption of unhealthy diets.
Going beyond hunger
This year’s report introduces a new indicator for measuring food insecurity at different levels of severity and monitoring progress towards SDG 2: the prevalence of moderate or severe food insecurity. This indicator is based on data obtained directly from people in surveys about their access to food in the last 12 months, using the Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES). People experiencing moderate food insecurity face uncertainties about their ability to obtain food and have had to reduce the quality and/or quantity of food they eat to get by.
The report estimates that over 2 billion people, mostly in low- and middle-income countries, do not have regular access to safe, nutritious and sufficient food. But irregular access is also a challenge for high-income countries, including 8 percent of the population in Northern America and Europe.
This calls for a profound transformation of food systems to provide sustainably-produced healthy diets for a growing world population.
Key facts and figures
ENDS
Note to editors
The heads of agencies issuing today's report are: José Graziano da Silva, Director-General of FAO; Gilbert F. Houngbo, President of IFAD; Henrietta H. Fore, Executive Director of UNICEF; David Beasley, Executive Director of WFP; and Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General of WHO.
The report is part of tracking progress towards Sustainable Development Goal 2 Zero Hunger, which aims to end hunger, promote food security and end all forms of malnutrition by 2030.
The 2017 report identified three factors behind the recent rise in hunger: conflict, climate and economic slowdowns. This year’s report focuses on the role of economic slowdowns and downturns in food security and nutrition.
Readers should avoid comparing Prevalence of Undernourishment numbers across different editions of the report because the entire data set is reviewed and revised, including possible backward revisions, before each publication. This ensures that the latest report takes into account any new information received since the release of the previous edition.
Full SOFI Report
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/14120-world-hunger-still-not-going-down-after-three-years-and-obesity-still-growing-%E2%80%93-un-report




Date: 24 June 2019
Title: Experts Discuss Industrial and Technological Priorities in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 24 June 2019
Industry was highlighted as one of the priority areas for Kyrgyzstan’s development, and participants stressed on its important role in reaching the Sustainable Development Goals. Experts also shared their recommendations to improve the current situation.
“Bringing all stakeholders together is especially important for us to create a platform for discussion where we can all exchange inputs on industrial development from different perspectives, share opinions and establish a fruitful discussion to reduce traditional sector silos, improve policy coherence and establish a platform for integrated policy formulation in Kyrgyzstan,” stated Acting UN Resident Coordinator, Andrea Bagnoli in his speech.
“As the world enters a transition into the fourth industrial revolution, a key opportunity for Kyrgyzstan is the availability of youth and a relatively high level of human capital,” said Prof. Dr. S. Sohail H. Naqvi, Rector of UCA. “The role of universities is also very critical, as they act as suppliers of human resources that will drive this economy, and also serve as hubs for research, to help guide the way forward and present new opportunities for development.”
The role of the Kyrgyz Parliament in the nation’s industrial development was discussed including Kyrgyzstan’s strategy for sustainable industry development for 2019-2024. The country’s Action Plan was shared with the participants who were also briefed about the economic policy for technological development.
“If we do not want temperatures to rise, glaciers to melt, and want to strive to save biodiversity, then we need relevant industrial technologies to help us promote global interest without compromising our population needs. There are clean coal combustion technologies, approved by the UN, and we need to agree on where we stand with solid fuel combustion. If we do not use solid fuel, then we will face constant electricity deficit and water shortages during the vegetation season. Quality of life can be significantly improved through industrial development,” noted Abay Alymkulov, Adviser to Vice-Prime-Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The UN-UCA Development Dialogues series will comprise six dialogues, organised over the course of one year, to initiate consultation among government, development partners, civil society, private sector and academia on critical sustainable development subjects. The goal of the Dialogues is to help break down traditional sector silos and enhance horizontal and vertical policy coherence, integration, and partnerships to inform policy formulation in Kyrgyzstan. Each dialogue is designed to include presentations of thematic issues by key stakeholders, a Q&A session, and an open substantive discussion that will be published as a thematic policy brief.
For more information please contact:
Nurshat Ababakirov, Communications Officer, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office at nurshat.ababakirov@one.un.org and/or 0770 979 703
Nasir Pirani, Director, Advancement and Public Affairs, University of Central Asia PublicAffairs@ucentralasia.org, 0312 910 822
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/14118-experts-discuss-industrial-and-technological-priorities-kyrgyzstan




Date: 19 June 2019
Title: Kyrgyzstan celebrates the World Refugee Day!
Content: 19 June 2019
BISHKEK, June 20, 2019 - World Refugee Day is also a moment to recognize the communities and people around the world who have opened their hearts and doors to refugees.  The Kyrgyz Republic established its national asylum system and has generously provided safety to over 20,000 refugees since the 1990s. Many of these refugees either locally integrated into the Kyrgyz Republic, or were resettled, or returned voluntarily to their countries. Currently there are about 400 asylum seekers and refugees in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“On World Refugee Day, it’s time to recognise their humanity in action – and challenge ourselves, and others, to join them – in receiving and supporting refugees in our schools, neighbourhoods, and workplaces. This is where solidarity starts – with all of us,” said Mr. Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
Mr. Bolotbek Ibraimzhanov, Chairman of the State Migration Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, noted, “Refugees - is one of the most challenging problems of our time that has acquired a global scale. The international community is consolidating its efforts to alleviate the plight of these people. Including our state since 1996, being a party to the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, in accordance with its capabilities, it contributes to the work on solving the problems of refugees. Great importance is referred to the implementation of joint refugee integration programs together with UNHCR. One of the significant results of this activity is assistance to refugees in acquiring citizenship. Thus, since 2002, more than 9 thousand people have acquired the citizenship of the Kyrgyz Republic. In addition, the rights of refugees, as the implementation of labor activity, entrepreneurship, the acquisition of property, the provision of judicial protection and others are implemented within the framework of the legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic.
“This event demonstrates solidarity with refugees and their host communities in Kyrgyzstan.  In doing our work, we witness every day the courage, perseverance and tenacity of refugees in the face of adversity. Most of the refugees have been living in the Kyrgyz Republic for many years and many refugee children were born on this territory. Almost all children attend schools, speak Kyrgyz or/and Russian languages and became a part of our society.  This event is a symbol of friendship among all children, and an opportunity for everyone to demonstrate his or her talents and skills, and excel further, together,” said Yasuko Oda, UNHCR Regional Representative for Central Asia.
The most interesting part of the celebration in Bishkek was sports competitions, where refugee children participated in various sports games to showcase their enthusiasm and prowess on the football field.  During sport games, refugee children performed tremendous results and showed their talents and skills that they were able to acquire in the Kyrgyz Republic.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/14117-kyrgyzstan-celebrates-world-refugee-day




Date: 29 May 2019
Title: WFP and Good Neighbors International Team Up To Improve School Meals And Food Security In Kyrgyzstan
Content: 29 May 2019
UN WFP and Good Neighbors International in the Kyrgyz Republic will implement joint projects aimed at rural infrastructure developing, increasing agricultural production and improving healthy eating practices.
In particular, the main priority of the partnership will be to ensure access to clean drinking water in rural communities, especially for social institutions such as schools. The Good Neighbors International in the Kyrgyz Republic  will also support the constructions and renovations in school canteens, including installing basic water and sanitary communications such as water filtraiton, sewage to introducing hot meals in schools.
“We are commited to provide all primary school children in Kyrgyzstan, especially in remote and economically poor areas, with high-quality hot meals,” said Andrea Bagnoli, WFP Kyrgyz Republic Country Director. “The partnership with the Good Neighbors International will enable to expand the school meals programme and ensure that more children can benefit from high-quality food in schools for their health and development.”
“We are honored to join efforts with World Food Programme to boost economic development and the well-being of rural communities in the Kyrgyz Republic, especially children,” said Mr. Zhong Hong Soo, Country Director of the Good Neighbors International in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The partnership’s another priority is supporting the nutrition education as well as  hygiene promotition. In this area, partners plan to conduct information campaigns and seminars on healthy eating practices in the target communities and especially in schools.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/14116-wfp-and-good-neighbors-international-team-improve-school-meals-and-food-security-kyrgyzstan




Date: 21 May 2019
Title: UNODC - World Customs Organization strengthen Customs officers’ capacity in Strategic Trade and Export Control in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 21 May 2019
Aimed at raising awareness and strengthening knowledge of the Customs officers in the field of strategic trade and export control, UNODC and WCO experts Adam Bacheller, Ercan Saka and Vakhtang Tartarashvili built officers capacity in the use of the customs control of industrial equipment, valves, chemical and biological equipment, missile systems, radioactive and nuclear materials as well as biological agents and toxins.
Mr. Almaz Saliev, Deputy Head of Customs Control Department from State Customs Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic underlined the importance of customs control of special items and dual use goods which are regulated by UN SC Resolution 1540 and thanked UNODC-World Customs Organization (WCO) Global Container Control Programme  for the valuable training-course.
The United National Security Council Resolution (UNCSR) 1540, unanimously adopted by all members states, places mandatory requirements for member states to maintain and develop appropriate effective border controls and law enforcement efforts to detect, deter, prevent and combat the illicit trafficking or brokering of weapon of mass destruction, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) materials or their associated/components parts.
According to Mr. Batyr Geldiyev, UNODC Regional Programme Coordinator emphasized that illicit trade in strategic commodities is a security threat both nationally and internationally and an increasing challenge for Customs administrations across the globe. He also expressed hope that Port Control Units members and State Customs Service frontline officers will apply the gained knowledge in their daily work aimed to ensure the secure supply chain of goods.
Since Kyrgyzstan joined the Programme in December 2015, the UNODC-World Customs Organization (WCO) Global Container Control Programme (CCP) Regional Segment for Central Asia had conducted a number of training-courses for the Kyrgyz Customs officers strengthening their professional knowledge on profiling and suppressing high risk consignments, provided specialized equipment and access to secure communication system ContainerComm.
The training-course is a part of the UNODC -World Customs Organization (WCO) Global Container Control Programme (CCP) Regional Segment for Central Asia funded by the Government of Japan, the U.S. Department of State Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) and the Export Control and Border Security (EXBS) Programme.
***
For more information, please contact Vasilina Brazhko (Mrs.)
National Communication/PR Officer, UNODC/ROCA
Cell: +996 775 98 78 17
E-mail: vasilina.brazhko@un.org
Facebook:/UNODCCentralAsia

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/14114-unodc-world-customs-organization-strengthen-customs-officers%E2%80%99-capacity-strategic-trade-and




Date: 19 April 2019
Title: UNODC and Partners Strengthen Capacity of Prison and Probation Staff to Manage Violent Extremist Offenders in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 19 April 2019
The training, organized by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in partnership with Kyrgyzstan's State Prison Service, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the OSCE Programme Office in Bishkek, was aimed at increasing participants' knowledge on mechanisms for the social rehabilitation of offenders in this category, both during their imprisonment and after release.
According to Ms. Aigul Katkeldieva, Head of the Probation Service under the State Prison Service: "This training is conducted for the first time for probation staff.  Increasing knowledge of our staff to better manage violent extremist offenders and facilitate their social rehabilitation is a high priority for us".
In order to effectively respond to existing challenges, the country needs well-trained and qualified prison and probation staff. Training is especially important for people working with violent extremist offenders. International standards indicate that prison and probation staff should receive training before beginning their work assignments and throughout their career", said Mr. Koen Marquering, UNODC International Manager in Central Asia.
"The role of the penitentiary system and probation offices is key to providing affordable, effective, and systematic rehabilitation assistance to convicts. The OSCE Program Office in Bishkek assists the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in enhancing the capacity of the State Prison Service in this area", stated Mr. Kakhramon Sanginov, OSCE Rule of Law Officer.
Training participants improved their knowledge of new criminal legislation, including on probation, and reviewed the goals and objectives of risk assessment and classification of convicts. A second round of such training is planned for staff of probation offices and open-type prisons from Bishkek, Chui, Issyk-Kul, Naryn and Talas in May.
As custodian of the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (i.e. the Nelson Mandela Rules), UNODC provides technical assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic in the field of penal reform. UNODC also assists national authorities to implement the 2017-2022 State Program to Counter Extremism and Terrorism.
The event is part of a joint UNODC/UNDP project on support to the prevention of radicalization to violence in prisons and probation settings in the Kyrgyz Republic funded by the UN Peacebuilding Fund.
For more information,
please contact Vasilina Brazhko (Ms.),
Communication and PR Officer, UNODC/ROCA
cell. +996 775 98 78 17, e-mail: vasilina.brazhko@un.org
UNODC in Central Asia on Facebook
UNODC ROCA on Twitter
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/14113-unodc-and-partners-strengthen-capacity-prison-and-probation-staff-manage-violent-extremist




Date: 27 March 2019
Title: UNHCR is handing over prefabricated housing units to the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Red Crescent Society of the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 27 March 2019
Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, 26-27 March 2019 - This donation is made through Disaster Response Coordination Unit (DRCU) to strengthen cooperation and coordination for disaster preparedness and response. The DRCU brings together donor community, Government counterparts, international and local NGOs, Kyrgyzstan Red Crescent, and the UN Country Team to ensure a coherent emergency preparedness and response in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Such housing units are used by UNHCR and its partners all over the world, primarily during emergency situations. Robust and waterproof, each PHU provides 17.5 square meters of living space with adequate privacy parameters. In addition, the PHUs are spacious and have windows to allow for ventilation, as well as LED lamp and solar panel charges that can be used to recharge electronic devices including mobile phones. Each PHU is easy and quick to construct and cab assembled by team of 4 people in few hours.
The PHUs will be utilized by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the Red Crescent Society in case of disaster and emergency situations in the Kyrgyz Republic. Beyond their primary use as emergency shelter, PHUs can be used as temporary first aid centres, accommodation for field personnel, education centres or storage.
At the official handover ceremony, Giorgi Sanikidze, Senior Officer of UNHCR Regional Representation for Central Asia expressed gratitude to UN Resident Coordinator, DRCU, MoES and RCSK for cooperation - “We see the provision of these housing units as another step forward in the long history of close cooperation and coordination between our organisations for disaster preparedness and response. We hope that the introduction of PHUs can strengthen their operational capacity, provide comfort to affected population and help save lives”.
«I am sure that the existing close and fruitful cooperation between MoES and UNHCR will become even stronger and move forward for the good of affected people of the Kyrgyz Republic. The provided assistance is a great help in preventing and eliminating the consequences of emergency situations on the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic.” – said Azamat Mambetov, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Kyrgyz Republic.
“We are sincerely grateful for the support in assisting people affected by natural disasters. These prefabricated housing units will be an effective solution to the housing problem in emergency situations. I am sure that our partnership is the most important condition for effective work not only in dealing with emergency situations, but also in improving preparedness for possible future challenges”, stressed Chingiz Djakipov, General Director of the Red Crescent of the Kyrgyz Republic.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13993-unhcr-handing-over-prefabricated-housing-units-ministry-emergency-situations-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 05 March 2019
Title: “Think equal, build smart, innovate for change”: United Nations celebrate the International Women's Day in Talas
Content: 05 March 2019
TALAS, 5 March 2019 – A sincere dialogue about the challenges and barriers that rural girls and young women are facing to access various resources is very crucial in the run up to the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Platform for Action to improve the situation of women and girls and in the context of nationalizing the Sustainable Development Goals. Rural girls and young women are most vulnerable to sexual and gender-based violence, gender-based discrimination in access to education, social services and employment. According to a joint study by UN Women, UNFPA, IOM and the National Statistical Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic, the highest percentage of abductions of women with the purpose of marriage (ala-kachuu/bride kidnapping) is carried out in Talas region (60%).
According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Development information, in Kyrgyzstan 68% of economically active population are women, of which 72.2% do not have a profession or occupation. Therefore, to ensure the sustainable development of local communities it is necessary to promote gender equality and empower women, particularly in the field of social protection, access to public services and sustainable infrastructure.
“I am sure that innovation plays an important role in removing barriers – social and gender - so that not a single woman and not a single girl will be left unattended. Many of the young people are already promoting their ideas for improving the economy and are taking more and more innovative approaches to implement their ideas. This applies both to self-realization in future professions, and the introduction of new ideas and approaches in the framework of regional development programs, implemented by the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, with the support of UN agencies” – noted Ozonnia Ojielo, UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan, during a meeting with the youth of Talas.
Women of different professions shared their personal experiences in how to achieve success, overcome various barriers, and advised how to choose the right pathway in education, profession and favourite job. Women of different professions such as Parliament Member Aida Kasymalieva, police colonel Bermet Temirbaeva, heowner of car service firm and a mechanic Aizada Toktogulova, businesswoman Asel Kuttubaeva, head of the Federation of Blind People Gulnaz Zhuzbaeva, TV presenter Aizada Zhamgyrchieva and others, shared their life stories.
Master classes on vocational guidance and educational opportunities in universities abroad were held after the speeches. The youth of Talas tried to assemble their own satellite and learned how to follow their dreams and achieve goals, despite gender stereotypes and barriers on the way.
The event was organized by the UN system in Kyrgyzstan: UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women), UN Population Fund (UNFPA), UN Development Program (UNDP), UN World Food Program (UN WFP), Program Office of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in the Kyrgyz Republic (UNODC), UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), with the support of the Ministry of Labour and Social Development of the Kyrgyz Republic and Talas Regional State Administration.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13989-%E2%80%9Cthink-equal-build-smart-innovate-change%E2%80%9D-united-nations-celebrate-international-womens-day




Date: 01 March 2019
Title: UN hosts a Development Dialogue on Migration in partnership with the University of Central Asia
Content: 01 March 2019
The event served as a platform for discussion among various stakeholders to share inputs on current migration issues, challenges, and opportunities, as well as develop a list of recommendations for a comprehensive, long-term and evidence-based national migration policy.
“Effective use of the positive aspects of migration processes in the Kyrgyz Republic can only be achieved by combining the joint efforts of all state bodies and civil society,” said Bolotbek Saparbaevich Ibraimzhanov, the Chairman of the State Migration Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic.
“The University of Central Asia aims to play a key and integral role as an anchor for regional development in Kyrgyzstan”, said Dr. Sohail Naqvi, Rector of UCA, at the opening session. “Evidence based policy research on development issues specific to mountain communities is reflected in the work of UCA’s Institute of Public Policy and Administration, and I am very pleased that today we are tackling the issue of migration, and its social and economic impact.”
At a recent board meeting of the State Migration Service, Altynai Omurbekova, Vice Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic, noted that there are more than 700,000 fellow citizens of the Kyrgyz Republic outside the country. “Despite the work done, there are a number of problems in this area that need to be addressed. First of all, it is necessary to develop a Concept of Migration Policy and approve a programme for support of compatriots abroad.”
“It is extremely important that multiple stakeholders work together on developing and implementing a migration policy. This is a cross-cutting issue with positive and negative impacts on social, economic and environmental aspects of development. Through the Development Dialogue initiative, we, UN agencies, as One UN will continue to provide policy support to the national partners in developing a comprehensive, long-term national migration policy for Kyrgyzstan,” stated Ozonnia Ojielo, United Nations Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic.
During the Dialogue participants touched upon social, economic and environmental aspects of migration, including such issues as labour migration, gender aspects of migration, safety of migrants and children, left behind by migrants. Stakeholders agreed that Kyrgyzstan needs a common vision for migration and expressed their commitment to continue working on developing a national migration policy.
The UN-UCA Development Dialogues series will comprise six dialogues, organised over the course of one year, to initiate consultation among government, development partners, civil society, private sector and academia on critical sustainable development subjects. The goal of the Dialogues is to help break down traditional sector silos and enhance horizontal and vertical policy coherence, integration, and partnerships to inform policy formulation in Kyrgyzstan. Each dialogue is designed to include presentations of thematic issues by key stakeholders, a Q&A session, and an open substantive discussion that will be published as a thematic policy brief.
Please read UN RC Ozonnia Ojeilo's speech here (as delivered).
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13987-un-hosts-development-dialogue-migration-partnership-university-central-asia




Date: 21 January 2019
Title: UNODC supports training for Kyrgyzstan’s judges on cases of trafficking in persons
Content: 21 January 2019
The training followed a training needs assessment and analysis of judicial practice in human trafficking cases, which concluded that judges require relevant trainings on issues related to witness protection during trials, including in-camera testimony, witness concealment and protection of privacy; best practices of court considerations in sentencing, including relevant mitigating and aggravating circumstances in TIP cases; as well as victims' rights and compensation issues.
“The training was conducted on the basis of a new training Manual on the handling of cases of human trafficking prepared by the Association of Women Judges with UNODC support”, said Raushan Turgunbaeva, Director of the Higher School of Justice. “The manual reflects newly adopted criminal legislation in Kyrgyzstan. Such training is very timely given that the new laws just entered into force”.
The training brought together judges of district and regional courts from all around the country with experience in handling criminal cases related to trafficking in persons. Following this initial training for judges’ mock trials to practice the prosecution and adjudication of human trafficking cases are planned later this year. The training course on human trafficking for judges is expected to be further integrated in the curriculum of the Higher School of Judges.
According to Jypara Rakisheva, UNODC National Program Coordinator: “This effort is part of a broader initiative to strengthen the criminal justice response to trafficking in persons within the framework of the Government's Anti-Trafficking Program for 2017–2020. Similar courses are being developed for police investigators and prosecutors so as to promote better access to justice for victims of this crime».
UNODC supports training on the investigation, prosecution and adjudication of trafficking in persons within the framework of the UNODC Program for Central Asia 2015-2019 with funding provided by the US Government.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13691-unodc-supports-training-kyrgyzstan%E2%80%99s-judges-cases-trafficking-persons




Date: 16 January 2019
Title: Validation Workshop “Health and Pollution Action Plan (HPAP) for the Kyrgyz Republic”
Content: 16 January 2019
The Health and Pollution Action Plan presented at this workshop outlines pollution-related health challenges in the Kyrgyz Republic and also contains two concept notes providing concrete project proposals for reducing air and water pollution in different parts of the country. Air and water pollution were also the main focus of today’s workshop.
The workshop was opened by three high-level speakers. Mr Eduard Auer, Head of the Delegation of the European Union to the Kyrgyz Republic, highlighted the EU’s role in assessing the global scope and extent of toxic pollution and its impacts on public health. In view of the issues highlighted in the Health and Pollution Action Plan, he also stressed that sustainable development is a key component of the cooperation between the EU and the Kyrgyz Republic. Mr Ozonnia Ojielo, United Nations Resident Coordinator to the Kyrgyz Republic, emphasised that pollution disproportionally affects the poor and vulnerable and noted that projects like this can make a significant contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Mr Arsen Ryspekov, Deputy Director of the Kyrgyz State Agency for Environmental Protection and Forestry (SAEPF), welcomed participants on behalf of the Kyrgyz Government and emphasised the need for action aimed at reducing pollution and improving public health in the Kyrgyz Republic.
In the two sessions following the introductions, speakers and participants discussed air and water pollution challenges and how they can be addressed. The national perspective was enriched with presentations of experts from Austria, India, Russia and Turkey. In addition, two international financial institutions – EBRD and ADB – provided  insights into their work in the Kyrgyz Republic and how it relates to air and water pollution in particular.
In their closing remarks, representatives of UNIDO expressed their gratitude to all Kyrgyz stakeholders who contributed to the Health and Pollution Action Plan and urged all participants to promote the implementation of the two project proposals in the future.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13690-validation-workshop-%E2%80%9Chealth-and-pollution-action-plan-hpap-kyrgyz-republic%E2%80%9D




Date: 18 December 2018
Title: UNODC and SFIS hold seminar on combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 18 December 2018
Some 21 staff of law enforcement agencies of Osh city and 24 representatives of the private sector were familiarized with working legislation on anti-money laundering and combatting the financing of terrorism (AML / CFT) in the country.
“The State Financial Intelligence Service of the Kyrgyz Republic pays special attention to inter-agency cooperation in the fight against money laundering and terrorism, and extremism financing. Not only the promptness of the information provided by the SFIS plays a decisive role in disclosing criminal schemes, but also the correctness of the preparation of special requests from law enforcement agencies of the Kyrgyz Republic is important.  These specialized seminars will subsequently be the main platform for the exchange of experience and information between the analytical services of the SFIS and the structural units of law enforcement agencies”, said Mr. Gulamjan Anarbayev, Chairperson of the State Financial Intelligence Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic.
According to Mr. Andrey Seleznev, Head of the UNODC Programme Office in the Kyrgyz Republic: “Development of an effective system of fighting the money laundering and terrorism financing is an integral part of the country's economic and social stability and the integrity of its financial system. Close cooperation and coordinated actions of all involved structures are needed”.
He also highlighted that the seminar was conducted as part of the new UNODC project on capacity building of SFIS for effective identifying and recovering the proceeds of crime in Kyrgyzstan: “New project will facilitate the reduction of illicit financial flows, improvement of the national legal framework, strengthen international and inter-agency cooperation in countering illicit drug trafficking, money laundering and organized crime, as well as enhancing the professional skills of law enforcement officers in AML / CFT”.
In addition to studying the regulatory legal acts and international AML / CFT standards, the programme of seminar also included an introduction to real financial investigations, as well as practical work to identify those involved inmoney laundering and financing terrorism. The workshop provided participants with an opportunity to develop their skills and enhance professional qualifications, as well as to learn more about the possibilities of cooperation at the national and international levels. The participants of the seminar emphasized that this event became a platform for exchanging views on the problems of countering money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism.
UNODC is the only UN Agency which fully supports the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in achieving Sustainable Development Goal #16 to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, access to justice for all and create effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime is the guardian of UN convention against Transnational Organized Crime, supports UN Convention against Corruption and acts in line with the Global UNODC Programme Against Money Laundering, Proceeds of Crime and Financing of Terrorism (GPML).
The event was conducted with the financial support from the U.S. State Department Bureau of  International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) as part of UNODC Sub-Programme 1 “Combating transnational organized crime, illicit drug trafficking and preventing terrorism» of the UNODC Program for Central Asia 2015-2019.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13689-unodc-and-sfis-hold-seminar-combating-money-laundering-and-financing-terrorism-kyrgyzstan




Date: 18 December 2018
Title: Migration with Dignity!
Content: 18 December 2018
The President reminded about the IV forum "Mekendeshter» that took place in August 2018. The forum contributed to the establishment of the Council on relations with compatriots living abroad under the President’s management, to strengthen interaction and ensure effective cooperation between government bodies and compatriots on issues of support, protection of the rights and interests of migrants abroad. He also mentioned the main regulation the Development Strategy of Kyrgyzstan which provides the formation of a verified state policy to support compatriots, diasporas abroad, the creation of conditions for their return to the homeland.
The President approved the Development Strategy in October 2018, where the migration mentioned in 16 steps for development.
To celebrate the International Migrants Day, IOM Kyrgyzstan has organized several activities in Hayat Regency hotel, where Extended Migration Profile, Research on Internal Migration presented and discussed with the representatives of NGO, state agencies and independent experts. During the event, researchers introduced the audience the recent migration trends, patterns, statistics and presented to the average internal migrant’s profile, and its' access to services.  In addition to this event, NGOs and civil society had a chance to learn about opportunities for cooperation with IOM in advocacy, capacity building, research and assistance for the vulnerable migrants through the fair for NGOs to enter to the IOM’s network and fair for vacancies. NGO partner “Arysh” who run the hotline “1899”, provided consultations and answered to questions on safe migration.  As many as 150 people participated in the event. Journalists and representatives of various media covered the event on local TV channels and media.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13687-migration-dignity




Date: 11 December 2018
Title: UN talks "Every Girl Has a Dream" empower women and girls
Content: 11 December 2018
The event became a platform for exchanging views, motivational speeches and success stories for girls from novostroikas and schools in Bishkek and Chui province. Successful individuals shared their stories and skills with girls who would like to change their lives for the better, realize their potential and believe in themselves.
Event organizers said, “Today we are witnessing the fact that girls and women can fulfill themselves in any field of activity, profession and make their contribution to the development of their community. Every year, the UN system organizes such platforms, where we can see many interesting individuals that inspire us to move further in this direction - in the empowerment of women and girls.”
The UN Talks aim to ensure that girls meet women and girls who have been able to achieve success in various fields of activity: rescue operations, football, satellite building, entrepreneurship, education, and more.
“I always wanted to be strong and help people. There were 5 children in our family, I am the eldest sibling and always had to stand up for the younger ones. And, probably, that is the reason why I have chosen this profession - rescuer of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. When my mother found out what profession I had chosen, first she said: ‘El emne deyt?’ (What will people say?). But now she is proud of me, my family - my husband also serves for the Ministry of Emergency Situations; and we have five children. And people, on the contrary, turn to me for help and only with gratitude,” medical rescuer of the Ministry of Emergency Situations Makhabat Nazarbekova said at the meeting.
“I was very happy when I entered KSUCTA (Kyrgyz State University of Construction, Transport and Architecture) and began studying with my peers to become an interior designer. I was told: “You are not only a woman, you are also a person with disability. It is going to be difficult for you.” I think this is double discrimination. But I did not give up. I dreamed of becoming a mother, getting married and opening my own dance school. And my dream came true - I have a family and a child now. We have recently opened a dance school for people with disabilities. I decided to help girls and women who find themselves in the same position as I do - to believe in themselves,” founder of the first dance school for people with disabilities of the “Love Life” Foundation Ainura Teleusheva said.
After hearing the stories at the UN Talks, the participants wrote their dreams on a specially prepared stand “Every Girl Has a Dream!”. According to the organizers, this stand will be installed in the UN House and will serve as a reminder of the importance of being able to listen and be heard.
The event was organized by UN Women, WFP, FAO, UNICEF, UNFPA and UNDP.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13684-un-talks-every-girl-has-dream-empower-women-and-girls




Date: 29 November 2018
Title: UN WOMEN supported “The best father-in-law” contests in provinces of the country
Content: 29 November 2018
Four fathers-in-law were selected from 16 target villages according to certain criteria: age over 45, desire to make positive changes in the community, artistry, creativity and a sense of humor. They performed in several rounds of the competition. In the “Greeting” part, each father-in-law introduced himself and his family, and told the main motto of his family. In "Popular wisdom" round participants demonstrated knowledge of proverbs about family and relationship between children and parents. "Impromptu" round revealed a sense of humor of the participants - they need to come up with a funny caption to the pictures that appear on the screen.
“The best father-in-law” is an unusual contest that was held in Kyrgyzstan for the first time. This is an attempt to establish an entertaining form of dialogue between generations to fight against forced and early marriages, as well as to spread information about responsibility for offenses in this area,”says Nazgul Asangozhoeva-Baekova, Country Director of HelpAge International.
"Way out of the situation" round deserves special attention, for each participant, a mini-sketch related to bride kidnapping and early marriage will be played by members of intergenerational groups. Participants had to play their assigned roles and give their answers. For example, your daughter was kidnapped, what are you going to do? Or your daughter was beaten by her husband, what would you do in this case?
There is also a round for knowledge of legislation on forced and early marriages, and the final round is a talent show. All participants got rewards and winners were determined in the nominations "The best father-in-law", "The wisest father-in-law", "The most creative father-in-law" and "The funniest father-in-law".
"The best father-in-law" contests were held in November 2018. Contestants received valuable prizes - household appliances: vacuum cleaners, microwave ovens, multicookers, heaters.
For more information on events please contact project coordinators of provinces:
Talas province: Marina Edigeeva, +996 (555) 87 34 22, +996 (777) 87 34 22, madigeeva@gmail.com
Issyk-Kul province: Venera Yzakova, +996 (709) 26 16 76, +996 (556) 92 87 78, yrist.karakol@gmail.com
Batken province: Svetlana Halbaeva, +996 (779) 21 13 08, +996 (554) 70 35 25, svetlana-is@mail.ru
Osh province: +996 (773) 27 93 78, +996 (556) 00 86 22, knishanov@mail.ru
For more information on “Across Generations and Gender Borders-Communities Combatting Gender-Based Violence in Kyrgyzstan” please contact Meriza Emilbekova, UN Women Communications and Advocacy Specialist at tel: 0770 07 85 25, e-mail: meriza.emilbekova@unwomen.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13677-un-women-supported-%E2%80%9C-best-father-law%E2%80%9D-contests-provinces-country




Date: 28 November 2018
Title: UNODC, Qatar and Kyrgyzstan Prison Service cooperate to provide prisoners with job opportunities
Content: 28 November 2018
“Imprisonment, in itself, is incapable of addressing offenders' social integration issues. Rather, the time of imprisonment should be used to ensure - as much as possible - that prisoners are both willing and able to lead law-abiding lives upon release”, stated Mr. Koen Marquering, a.i. Head of the UNODC Program Office in the Kyrgyz Republic at the handover ceremony.
Out of the over 10,000 prisoners in the country, only 1,600 are currently involved in constructive activities. To change this situation, UNODC, the Prison Service and the Agency of Vocational Training under the Ministry of Education developed a prison rehabilitation programme, which foresees vocational training and the launch of a bakery, as well as shoe-making and sewing production facilities in female prison #2 and male prison #3.
In line with an Action Plan on Cooperation between the Prison Service and UNODC, signed in November 2017, and based on generous financial support from the State of Qatar, some 8 million soms have been allocated for renovation works and procurement of equipment for the establishment of 3 income-generated facilities. Up to 100 offenders are expected to participate in the prison-based rehabilitation programme, which will give them an opportunity to obtain a certified specialization as bakers, sewers and footwear masters and gain work experience at the prison-based production facilities.
“The State of Qatar and UNODC are implementing a global initiative to promote judicial integrity, youth crime prevention, education for justice and social rehabilitation of offenders. Over 80 countries around the world, including Kyrgyzstan, benefit from this program aimed at implementing the 2015 Doha Declaration”, said H.E. Mr. Abdulla Al-Sulaiti, Ambassador of the State of Qatar in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Adopted at the conclusion of the 13th United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, the Doha Declaration highlights the importance of supporting measures to support the rehabilitation and social reintegration of prisoners into the community.
As the guardian of the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (Nelson Mandela Rules), UNODC puts great focus on prison conditions and contributes to solutions to facilitate the smooth reintegration of prisoners into society.
UNODC supports the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in establishing a more rehabilitative approach to prison management within the framework of the 2015-2019 UNODC Program for Central Asia and the Global Program for the Implementation of the Doha Declaration with funding from the State of Qatar.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13674-unodc-qatar-and-kyrgyzstan-prison-service-cooperate-provide-prisoners-job-opportunities




Date: 26 November 2018
Title: United Nations supported opening of a street art to end gender-based violence
Content: 26 November 2018
Street art (graffiti portrait) on the wall of the dormitory of the Bishkek Medical College (BMK) was initiated by the Women Support Center and UN Women. The street art will remind society of the terrible consequences of bride kidnapping in the Kyrgyz Republic, highlight the importance of promoting the rights of women and girls, and the need to address issues of preventing gender-based violence. Participants of the advocacy event expressed their solidarity with activists around the world who have joined the global campaign against gender-based violence.
Opening of a street art was a launching event of the national campaign to end gender-based violence that commences on 25 November - the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women - and ends on 10 December, Human Rights Day. In recent years, the UNiTE campaign has utilized the colour orange to represent a brighter future, free from violence against women and girls, as a unifying theme running through all of its global activities.
The UNiTE Campaign’s global advocacy theme is: Orange the World: #HearMeToo. This is because in recent years the voices of survivors and activists, through campaigns have reached a crescendo that cannot be silenced any more.  Campaign calls on the global audience to support survivor advocates, women’s movements and women’s human rights defenders in ending systemic violence against women and girls.
In Kyrgyzstan, on these dates, more than 60 events were organized throughout the country. The Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, the UN system in the Kyrgyz Republic, representatives of NGOs, the national movement UNiTE will focus their efforts on increasing attention to the problem of violence.
For reference: 16 days campaign against gender-based violence in Kyrgyzstan is conducted annually by the partner community, in coordination with the Ministry of Labor and Social Development of the Kyrgyz Republic and the UN system. This year, the Swiss Embassy in the Kyrgyz Republic, the British Embassy in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Delegation of the European Union in the Kyrgyz Republic, GIZ, ADB, OSCE, USAID, Good Neighbors, Open Line, NGO “Women Support Center”, NGO “Gender Information Center”, Crisis Center “Aruulan”, PF “New Rhythm”, PF “Omur Bulagy”, PF “Center for the Study of Democratic Processes”, PF “Podruga, PF “DIA”, Crisis Center “Sezim", “Association of Crisis Centers”, Crisis Center “Shans”, PF" Women Support Center-Ariet ", PF" League of Defenders of the Rights of the Child ", PO" New Name ", PO “Alga”, PF “Asteria”, OO “Kyrgyz Indigo”, Bishkek feminist initiatives, OO “Labris”, PF “Foundation for social programs”, PF “Equal rights and opportunities”, OO “Ayalzat”, ISEDA and others joined their efforts to end this pandemic.

Some facts about violence:
More than 20% of marriages in the Kyrgyz Republic are committed by abducting a woman for the purpose of marriage (with or without her consent), the proportion of forced marriages is 6%. Moreover, the rate of bride kidnapping in the rural areas was found to be two times higher than in the urban areas.
23% of all women aged between 15–49 have experienced physical abuse at least once since the age of 15.
One out of four ever married women were victims of physical abuse by their current or former husband; 4% experienced sexual abuse; 4% - emotional abuse.
Only two out of five women sought help after experiencing physical or sexual abuse.
Women whose fathers beat their mothers are about twice as likely to experience some form of spousal abuse (52%) than women whose fathers did not beat their mothers (23%).
More than half (57%) of women who had been physically or sexually abused by their husband had physical injuries: including breaking their bones and knocking out teeth, cuts and hematomas were on the body.
34% of women and 50% of men believe that it is acceptable to hit a wife for the following reasons:
• does not take care of children (24%)
• leaves home without husband’s permission (18%)
• if a woman objects to her husband (16%)
• refuses sexual intercourse (7%)
• if she burns a food (6%)
Domestic violence is criminalized, and the severity of physical and health consequences for victims increases. In 2015 compared to 2010, the number of crimes committed on the basis of domestic violence against life, health and sexual integrity increased by 1.6 times.
Estimation of the economic consequences of murder in case of domestic violence revealed that the direct costs for one case were 1 636 738 KGS. Total expenses for one case - 2 857 538 KGS. Total for 2010-2016 98 kills were recorded.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13670-united-nations-supported-opening-street-art-end-gender-based-violence




Date: 12 November 2018
Title: UNODC and UN Women team up to improve data collection on gender-based violence and human trafficking in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 12 November 2018
The courses will run from 12 November until 6 December 2018 and target some 230 staff from regional departments of the National Statistics Committee and the Ministry of Interior, as well as social workers providing support to the population at the local level.
“Authorities are currently taking measures to address gender-based discrimination, domestic violence and human trafficking, which remain of concern in the Kyrgyz Republic”, said Luxina Tekeeva, Deputy Chair of the National Statistics Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic. “One of these measures relates to the improvement of systems for data collection and analysis in this area”.
In April this year, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic presented a new system for data collection on gender-based violence and human trafficking. This system is the result of a joint effort between UNODC and key national ministries and agencies: National Statistics Committee, Ministry of Labor and Social Development, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Health, General Prosecutor's Office, Supreme Court and crisis centers.
“UNODC intends to continue cooperation with the national partners in this area to objectively assess the current crime situation and related trends, including in relation to gender-based violence and human trafficking. This will further facilitate the adoption of effective measures aimed at reducing and preventing these crimes, as well as tracking progress towards achieving the global Sustainable Development Goals,” highlighted Koen Marquering, Acting Head of the UNODC Program Office in the Kyrgyz Republic.
The new reporting formats contain several important innovations. For example, State bodies will start collecting data on the type of abuse suffered. This can range from physical and psychological violence to abuse of an economic nature when the victim’s access to and use of financial resources, property, or other assets is restricted. The new system will also provide authorities with better insights into the prevalent forms of exploitation suffered by victims of human trafficking. The relevant government agencies have already adopted internal instructions in order to begin collecting data based on the new reporting formats.
During the training participants will gain knowledge on international standards and national legislation applicable to gender-based crimes, family violence and human trafficking; methodologies for determining the types of gender-based violence, forms of trafficking in persons, and crimes related to trafficking in persons as per newly adopted criminal legislation. Participants will also have an opportunity to improve their skills on completing the amended registration forms and preparing statistical reports.
The training courses are organized as part of the 2015-2019 UNODC Program for Central Asia with generous financial support from the Government of the United States.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13669-unodc-and-un-women-team-improve-data-collection-gender-based-violence-and-human-trafficking




Date: 17 October 2018
Title: UNODC supports Kyrgyzstan Government in enhancing prison security
Content: 17 October 2018
“During the past two years, UNODC and the Government of Japan have rendered support in enhancing prison security, which helps to strengthen trust in the justice system in the Kyrgyz Republic”, said Mr. Taalaibek Zhaparov, Chair of the State Prison Service.
Prison #16 was first built in 1974 and currently accommodates approximately 905 offenders, 50 out of whom are serving a life sentence. A newly established wing for violent extremist prisoners in the prison is under construction.
It is in this context that the Government of Japan provided financial contribution to UNODC to provide technical assistance to the Prison Service of Kyrgyzstan to address radicalization to violence and violent extremism in prison settings.
“In order to ensure global security, the fight against extremism is important both in Kyrgyzstan and in the region as a whole. The State Prison Service of the Kyrgyz Republic and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime play an important role in this”, noted the Ambassador of Japan to Kyrgyzstan, H.E. Yoshihiro Yamamura. "From the point of view of the security of the country and its people, the social reintegration of prisoners after release from prison is a relevant issue not only in the Kyrgyz Republic, but also in many other countries."
Since April 2017, UNODC and the Government of Japan have supported efforts to improve prison conditions in various prison facilities of Kyrgyzstan. In addition to the improvement of sanitary conditions and the implementation of vocational training and income generation programs, the Japanese-funded project paid particular attention to measures enhancing prison security.
Cell blocks holding violent extremist prisoners in colony #27 and colony #47 were equipped with an innovative video surveillance and intercom system. This system not only allows for better monitoring of prisoners by prison staff, but also enables prisoners to easily contact and ask for support from prison staff directly from their cells. In line with this approach, UNODC procured sports equipment for the prisoners who now have the possibility to play table tennis during their daily time out of their cells. Office space for psychologists and social workers has been improved.
“Another innovative aspect of our joint work with the Prison Service involves the introduction of new software for electronic registration of visits, packages and parcels”, said Koen Marquering, i.a. Head of the UNODC Programme Office in the Kyrgyz Republic. “The idea behind this initiative is to move from an outdated paper-based to a more efficient electronic format for the registration of documents and other items with the support of a new computer, printer and passport scanner. This is expected to improve the level of control of what enters the prison and reduce waiting times for family and other visitors who come to see their loved ones or bring food and other essential items to the prisoners”.
As custodian of the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (i.e. the Nelson Mandela Rules), UNODC provides technical assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic in the field of penal reform. UNODC also assists national authorities to implement the 2017-2022 State Program to Counter Extremism and Terrorism.
Well-managed prisons and the treatment of prisoners consistent with international standards and norms for crime prevention and criminal justice is a precondition for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, including Goal 16 aimed at promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, ensuring access to justice for all and building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.
UNODC supports the State Penitentiary Service of the Kyrgyz Republic as part of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia 2015-2019.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13665-unodc-supports-kyrgyzstan-government-enhancing-prison-security




Date: 17 October 2018
Title: UNODC supports the need for gender sensitivity in justice system to safeguard rights of women in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 17 October 2018
Participants of the side event elaborated on how the under-representation of women in justice system institutions, as is the case in many countries, has a negative impact on numerous aspects of justice proceedings and contributes to gender discrimination. The experiences of female victims of gender-based violence in a predominantly male justice and penitentiary system were highlighted by many participants in the discussion.
According to the Kyrgyz National Statistics Committee, a reporting on gender-based violence remains low. Victims of crime and violence prefer turning to crisis centers rather than to the police. Some 16,116 people turned to crisis centers and other institution to acquire psychological and social support when only 4010 cases of gender-based violence were registered by the police in 2017.
The law of the Kyrgyz Republic on “Prevention and Protection against Family Violence” was introduced on April 27, 2017 and it includes measures to improve protection for victims of domestic violence and strengthen police and judicial response. It requires police to register a domestic abuse complaint from anyone, not just the victim.
Jypara Rakisheva when shared lessons learned from UNODC’s work with the Interior Ministry of Kyrgyzstan also outlined that women are often great communicators with strong ability to defuse situations that could potentially turn violent which was confirmed during the joint work on implementing the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic “ On prevention and protection from family violence" in the regions of the country, to establish a referral mechanism for cases of gender-based violence and to raise awareness among representatives of local government bodies, health system, education, social protection and police responsible for preventing and responding to gender-based violence.
In Kyrgyzstan, UNODC has been promoting discussion on policies to increase participation and representation of women in the police force and has supported initiatives to ensure regular dialogue between police and women in local communities since 2014.
With UNODC's assistance in 2017, some 200 female police officers from police departments in all regions of Kyrgyzstan received training on criminal legislation, criminal investigations and crime prevention, including the prevention of violent extremism, gender-based violence and leadership trainings.  Expert advice to strengthen data collection and analysis on domestic and other forms of gender-based violence is also part of the project in support of Kyrgyzstan's efforts in monitoring progress towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The event was co-organized by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and Penal Reform International (PRI) to promote women’s equal representation among staff of justice institutions and to advocate for gender-sensitive justice systems.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13668-unodc-supports-need-gender-sensitivity-justice-system-safeguard-rights-women-kyrgyzstan




Date: 11 October 2018
Title: UN celebrates International Day of the Girl Child in Osh
Content: 11 October 2018
The International Day of the Girl Child is celebrated annually on 11 October. The main aims of the day are to promote girl’s empowerment and fulfilment of their human rights while also highlighting the challenges that girls all over the world face.In Kyrgyzstan the problems faced by girls remain quite acute: 25% of girls in the country do not continue their education after 9th grade; 14% of girls aged 15-19 are in early marriage or living in a marriage union and have increased health risks due to early pregnancy and early age at first childbirth; 54% of girls are abused by the parent / guardian; 31% of girls aged 15-19 are prone to anemia.
“I would like every girl in Kyrgyzstan to have the opportunity to make her dreams come true. For this, every woman and man in Kyrgyzstan must make a commitment to end discrimination, child marriage, bride kidnapping and break stereotype to motivate and create a space where every girl could realize her potential. Girls are the present and the future of Kyrgyzstan, ”said Ozonnia Ojielo, the UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan in his appeal.
At the event, successful girls of various professions and their relatives gave motivational speeches, among them were Zere, who became famous after release of a video clip for the song "Kyz" and her father, Asylbek Zhoodonbekov, artist Nariste Aliyeva, Ainura Amanalieva co-founder of Ololo group of companies and others. At the end of the event, the song-anthem of girls “Kyz Kadyry” was performed, the soundtrack of the short film “Ala-Kachuu” (“Abduction”, 2018). Stella, a symbol of the International Day of  the Girl Child, was officially transferred from the Forum of Women Deputies of the Kyrgyz Republic to the representative of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in Osh province. It is expected that the stella will be transferred from one province to another on annual basis to symbolize incurrence of liability and commitment of province governors to actively promote girls’ rights and their empowerment.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13663-un-celebrates-international-day-girl-child-osh




Date: 09 October 2018
Title: Early childhood education leads to more, better, and higher paid jobs
Content: 09 October 2018
According to the Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic, in 2018 the coverage of early childhood education in Kyrgyzstan is 24% (compared with 16% in 2012). Currently, almost 187,000 children attend 1,390 kindergartens, of which 1,248 are public and 142 are private. A higher birth rate has led to the increase in the number of children who need early childhood education and pre-school education. So, if in 2012 there were 625 961 children between age 2 and 6, in 2017 there were already 768 299 children.
The study will be conducted from October to December 2018 under the European Union's global programme on establishing sustainable and inclusive social protection systems, and in partnership with the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the National Institute for Health and Welfare of Finland. Similar studies were successfully piloted in South Africa, Uruguay and Turkey in 2017.
Elmira Alymkulova, the Head of National Statistics Committee Apparatus, said: “It should be noted that the National Statistics Committee plays an important role in the implementation of state policy in the field of statistics and is the national coordinating body for monitoring the progress towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals.”
“Investing in early childhood development is seen as the most cost-effective strategy for promoting economic growth. Through economic modeling, this study will calculate three possible scenarios for expanding early childhood and care services with demonstrating how this expansion will affect the economic growth of the Kyrgyz Republic,” noted Charlotte Adriaen, the Head of the Cooperation Section of the European Union Delegation to the Kyrgyz Republic.
Gerald Gunther, UN Women Representative in Kyrgyzstan added: “Investment in universal, affordable and high-quality early childhood education and care services will accelerate progress on the entire 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Investment in children increases the rate of women participation in the labour force which has been lagging in recent years. Early childhood education leads to better quality and higher paid jobs in Kyrgyzstan, providing for alternatives to poverty driven labour migration.”
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13662-early-childhood-education-leads-more-better-and-higher-paid-jobs




Date: 05 October 2018
Title: UNODC supports State Coordination Committee on Drugs Control in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 05 October 2018
The event was attended by some 50 representatives from the governmental authorities.
During the meeting, Mr. Zhenish Razakov stressed that “close proximity of Kyrgyzstan to Afghanistan, where last year an absolute record of opium was produced, poses a threat of increasing trafficking of heroin that can provoke not only worsening situation with criminal situation in general."
The Vice Prime Minister also highlighted new challenges and threats that have become reality in the country in the past few years: “Firstly, this is the problem with the so-called «new psychoactive substances”, which are not formally drugs, but able to re-produce their psychoactive effect. We have to make decision on their inclusion to the lists of controlled substances in a short time, however, new types of them appear on the market very soon, therefore, this work needs to be organized in a more efficient manner,” he added.
The new alternative North-South road that is under construction in the Naryn and Issyk-Kul oblasts, with low population density and minimum law-enforcement infrastructure, has high probability for using by criminals as a new “bypass route” of the so-called Northern Route of Afghan drug trafficking.
The SCCD members also discussed issues regarding implementation of the Anti-drug program of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and its Action Plan adopted by the Government of Kyrgyzstan in 2014, as well as other important issues of coordination activities in the field of drug control, including drug demand reduction and reduction of negative consequences of drugs.
Important to note that in March 2018, UNODC in Kyrgyzstan with the generous financial support from the Government of Japan, has launched a US $ 2.7 million project on Supporting Drug Control.
These efforts aimed at supporting strong national legislation on drug control, national operational capacities on drug law enforcement, as well as for enhancing the capacities of other competent authorities in maintaining the legal turnover of controlled narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors under the ratified UN conventions. As part of a balanced and comprehensive integrated strategy, the health consequences of drug use especially for the young and vulnerable population will also be addressed.
The meeting was organized as part of the sub-programme-1 “Countering transnational organized crime, illicit drug trafficking and preventing terrorism” of the “UNODC Programme for Central Asia 2015-2019”.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13661-unodc-supports-state-coordination-committee-drugs-control-kyrgyzstan




Date: 17 September 2018
Title: A Long Road to Citizenship
Content: 17 September 2018
Bishkek, 12 September 2018 – Not considered as nationals by any State, millions of people around the world face challenges to access basic rights and services on a daily basis.
Kyrgyzstan is not unfamiliar with the phenomenon of statelessness.  According to the State Registration Service (SRS) data, more than 50,000 persons had their Kyrgyz citizenship clarified and confirmed between 2010 and 2014.  In 2014, UNHCR and the Kyrgyz Government launched a joint project to address the remaining cases of statelessness with the aim to identify stateless persons and those at risk of statelessness across the country.  As a result, more than 13,000 stateless and persons with undetermined nationality have been registered and nearly 12,000 of them have had their stateless situation resolved as of today.
“Your new passport is more than a document.  It is a proof of your legal connection to the state.  You will be able to move freely, to own property, to receive pension and healthcare, and to register your life events and that of your children such as birth and marriage, and finally to participate in the democratic process”, said Ms. Yasuko Oda, Regional Representative/Regional Coordinator of UNHCR for Central Asia.
While the majority of stateless people have lived in Kyrgyzstan all their lives, some others have become stateless later in life due to legislative gaps and other reasons such as international migration.  Although well integrated in the local society, stateless and undocumented persons face insurmountable obstacles due to their lack of citizenship and identity document when registering marriage and childbirth, traveling abroad, or receiving social benefits such as pensions and health insurance.  The new citizens will finally be able to access to education, healthcare, legal employment, property ownership, political participation, as Kyrgyz citizens.
Attending today’s passport hand-over ceremony with Ms. Muhabat Pratova, Director of the Department for Registration of Population and Civil Acts of the State Registration Service, the Regional Representative of UNHCR Ms. Yasuko Oda congratulated the 15 new citizens of the Kyrgyz Republic:
“Despite advances made in reducing statelessness, millions of people all over the world still live as ”invisible” - without legal identities, and unrecognized as citizens by any state.  I am very pleased that the 15 people received a passport today, and wish to commend the Kyrgyz government’s commitment to addressing this human rights issue.  I very much look forward to our continued partnership with the Kyrgyz authorities for accelerating the efforts further to bring statelessness to a close in near future”.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13658-long-road-citizenship




Date: 17 September 2018
Title: Government, Youth and UN Agencies launch 100 days against trafficking in persons campaign in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 17 September 2018
The campaign aims at raising awareness of the public at large on a wide range of issues related to trafficking in persons and irregular migration. These include child marriage, bride kidnapping, child labour and forced labour as an exploitation form of human trafficking.
Mr. Mirlan Parkhanov, Deputy Director of the State Agency for Youth, Physical Training and Sport - “Youth is the future of Kyrgyzstan. Youth organizations and young activists having gained knowledge and skills on issues related to trafficking in persons and irregular migration, are now willing to deliver this valuable information to public at large. I believe it is important to support youth in this initiative”.
“Irregular migration and human trafficking are the crucial issues for Kyrgyzstan and we are grateful for active participation of youth in running this initiative”, said Samat Toktobolotov, Deputy chairperson of the Kyrgyz State Migration Service.
The campaign is a part of the Kyrgyz Government’s Programme on Combatting Trafficking in Persons for 2017-2020 which unites efforts of government stakeholders and civil society to fight this crime.
In 2018, the campaign is led by the State Agency for Youth, Physical Training and Sport and the State Migration Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and over 30 youth organizations in cooperation with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), International Organization for Migration (IOM)/ The UN Migration Agency, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the International Labor Organization (ILO), UN Entity for Gender Equality and Empowerment of Women (UN WOMEN), the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) Programme Office in Bishkek. The initiative is funded by the European Union (EU) and other donors.
“100 days against trafficking in persons” campaign was conducted on 31-st July 2017 for the first time under the coordination of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, local government administrations and UNODC Global Programme GLO.ACT with the financial support from the European Union.
Learn more on the campaign at: @UNODCCentralAsia and https://www.facebook.com/100daysagainstTIP2018/?ref=py_c
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13659-government-youth-and-un-agencies-launch-100-days-against-trafficking-persons-campaign




Date: 14 September 2018
Title: “100 Days against Trafficking in Persons” – Awareness Raising Campaign set to inspire action to prevent human trafficking
Content: 14 September 2018
Q: What is the current situation with trafficking in persons in Central Asia?
A: As part of our mandate, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (#UNODC) publishes a Global Report on Trafficking in Persons. We do this every two years. The latest report, which was released in 2016, showed that trafficking in persons is a global phenomenon with more than five hundred different trafficking flows identified all over the world. In Western Europe, victims were identified from 137 different countries.
More than 50 percent of all victims are women and girls, mostly they are sexually exploited. Almost a third of the victims are children and adolescents.
This is a worrying trend, which tells us that we must focus our preventive work on youth and raise their awareness. This is crucial in Central Asia where we have very young populations. In Uzbekistan, UNODC recently partnered with a leading NGO Istiqbolli Avlod to organize a summer camp for youth, which focused on promoting volunteerism and youth leadership on social issues, including prevention of trafficking in persons.
In Kyrgyzstan, we worked with the State Agency for Youth, Physical Education and Sports on a major youth forum at the Issyk Kul lake this summer. Now we are getting ready to launch a nationwide public awareness raising campaign “100 days against trafficking in persons” in Kyrgyzstan. This campaign, which is largely youth-led this year, will go all around the country to talk to people about the risks of becoming a human trafficking victim.
The situation with trafficking in persons in Central Asia is not straightforward due to a tradition of intense migration flows. In search of work and a better life, people leave their communities to move to bigger cities, or they leave their country to try their luck abroad. Disconnected from their families with little income they become vulnerable to exploitation and can become victims of human trafficking.
The UNODC Global Report on Trafficking in Persons found that in Central Asia most victims are men and forced labor is the most common form of exploitation.
Q: What does UNODC do to support Central Asian countries in their efforts to counter trafficking in persons?
All Central Asian countries have ratified the UN Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime and related protocols to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants. UNODC assists the countries in the region with their implementation of these international standards.
This requires a comprehensive, participatory and inclusive approach, which brings together governments and civil society around a range of issues. First, legislation needs to be in place to protect victims and prosecute traffickers. Recently, we published an analysis of Turkmenistan’s legislation to combat human trafficking. In Kyrgyzstan, we actively promote judicial reform, which entails the adoption and implementation of new criminal legislation, including provisions related to trafficking in persons.
Second, UNODC supports strategic planning of efforts to counter trafficking in persons. Within the framework of national action plans that are being implemented in various Central Asian countries, such as Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, we are working to strengthen interdepartmental and international cooperation. Following the adoption of a new Government Program to address trafficking in persons in Kyrgyzstan in 2017, this year we have supported the creation of anti-human trafficking coordination committees in each province. Hopefully, this will help to translate national level priorities into concrete action at the local level, where people are most vulnerable.
Q: Trafficking in persons is a hidden crime, which is often not reported to the police. What can be done to prevent impunity for this crime in Central Asia?
A: In Uzbekistan, courts annually consider approximately 300-400 or more criminal cases related to trafficking in persons. In other countries of the region, the number of criminal cases is much lower.
Investigating human trafficking is not easy. Success depends on many factors, in particular on victims themselves. Often, victims do not feel safe and are reluctant to go to the police.
Victims of human trafficking may well suffer from post-traumatic stress, depression or anxiety. Referral and support mechanisms are needed to help them get back on their feet. Without this, how can they be expected to report the crime to the police and testify in court?
It is also necessary to strengthen the capacity of the police to prevent, detect and respond to human trafficking. As part of our programs in Central Asia, this is exactly what we are doing.
In Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan, UNODC has produced training manuals to build the skills of law enforcement officers, prosecutors and judges to investigate, prosecute and adjudicate trafficking cases. In Uzbekistan, we recently launched a training film called "Victims, not villains", which emphasizes the role of prosecutors and judges in ensuring that trials do not damage the rights, dignity, physical and psychological well-being of victims of trafficking.
Q: How do countries of origin and destination cooperate on human trafficking cases?
Trafficking in persons is a form of transnational crime, meaning that it often involves more than one country and different jurisdictions. Countries of origin, transit and destination need to work together to protect and support victims and to ensure traffickers are convicted.
In Kyrgyzstan, UNODC recently brought together prosecutors and other representatives of authorized bodies responsible for international cooperation to discuss the main challenges in this area. This dialogue platform gave Kyrgyz authorities an opportunity to interact with their counterparts from Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, the Russian Federation and Turkey about the provision of mutual legal assistance during the investigation and prosecution of trafficking cases. We hope to support more specific training on the preparation of mutual legal assistance requests and facilitate improved bilateral cooperation with destination countries during the upcoming period.
Human trafficking is a lucrative crime. The same goes for smuggling of migrants. For the first time UNODC this year published a Global Study on the Smuggling of Migrants, which concluded that migrant smuggling occurs in all regions of the world and generates an income for smugglers of up to US$7 billion.
More research on this issues is needed in Central Asia, which until now mostly seems to function as a transit area for irregular migration and migrant smuggling from South, South-West and East Asia to Europe.
Within Central Asia, irregular migration status mainly results from overstaying, the failure to register as a temporary resident or unauthorized employment, rather than from irregular movement across national borders. Still, it is possible that people who do not possess valid travel documents, or citizens of countries, such as Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, who may need a visa to travel, migrate irregularly within the region. Kazakhstan and in particular the Russian Federation are the main destinations for these migrants.
Q: What are the main achievements of your work in this area?
A: An important component of our work is the provision of training to police officers and other criminal justice practitioners to develop skills to conduct investigations and prosecute human trafficking. We are engaged in such capacity development in Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. Soon we plan to launch a similar initiative in Tajikistan.
This summer we brought together a group of investigators from all regions of Kyrgyzstan. They had heated debates on the challenges they face. Sure, one training cannot be expected to change the way the system works. However, we have some indications that police are now initiating several new investigations into human trafficking cases. The Ministry of Interior’s Criminal Investigations Service has shown commitment to strengthen its response to human trafficking.
With our support, the Government in Kyrgyzstan this year introduced a new system for data collection on gender-based violence and human trafficking. This will allow for better monitoring of the situation and development of targeted measures to prevent and respond to trafficking in persons. There are several important innovations in the new reporting formats. For example, government agencies will begin to collect data on various forms of exploitation to which victims of trafficking have been exposed.
The #100daysagainstTIP2018 campaign is due to start on 10 September in Kyrgyzstan. Such nationwide campaigns, which reach people at the community level, are needed in all Central Asian countries. Related awareness raising events will also focus on the need to eradicate such practices, as early marriage, forced marriage and bride kidnapping.
I would like to invite everyone to join this initiative so that we can strengthen cooperation, work together and seek effective solutions to prevent human trafficking in all countries of Central Asia.
Interview prepared by Vasilina Brazhko, UNODC/ROCA Communication and PR Officer
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13655-%E2%80%9C100-days-against-trafficking-persons%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-awareness-raising-campaign-set-inspire-action




Date: 10 September 2018
Title: UN torture prevention experts to visit Kyrgyzstan
Content: 10 September 2018
The delegation will meet and hold discussions with the National Center on Prevention of Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which is the National Preventive Mechanism (NPM) of the country.
Among the places the SPT delegation is due to visit are police stations, prisons, psychiatric institutions, pre-trial detention facilities as well as centres for juveniles and other places of deprivation of liberty in the various provinces of the country. The experts will meet Government officials, the Parliament, the Prosecutor General as well as UN and civil society representatives.
“Kyrgyzstan ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture in 2008 and established its National Preventive Mechanism in 2012. This second visit aims to identify what has been done since the first visit, and to assess further steps to prevent torture in the country” said SPT Vice-chairperson Victor Zaharia, who will head the six-member delegation.
At the end of the visit, the SPT will present its confidential preliminary observations to the government of Kyrgyzstan as well as to the country’s national preventive mechanism. The SPT encourages both the State party and the preventive mechanism to makes these reports public, as the Government did with the first SPT visit report.
The SPT delegation will comprise Mr. Victor Zaharia (Republic of Moldova; head of delegation), Ms. Marija Definis-Gojanovic (Croatia), Mr. Kosta Mitrovic (Serbia), Mr. Abdallah Ounnir (Morocco), Ms. June Caridad Pagaduan Lopez (The Philippines) and Ms. Aneta Stanchevska (the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia).
Background:
The Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment has, to date, been ratified by 88 countries. The SPT communicates its recommendations and observations to States by means of a confidential report and, if and when necessary, to National Preventive Mechanisms. The SPT work is guided by the principles of confidentiality and cooperation.
The SPT has a mandate to undertake visits to States Parties, during the course of which it may visit any place where persons are or may be deprived of their liberty. It is composed of 25 independent and impartial experts from different regions of the world, who are independent human rights experts serving in their personal capacity.
For more information on the mandate of Subcommittee, please visit  http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/OPCAT/Pages/OPCATIndex.aspx
For more information and media inquiries, please contact:
In Kyrgyzstan: Joao Nataf, +41 (0) 79 444 3707 / jnataf@ohchr.org 
In Geneva: Julia Gronnevet, +41 (0) 22 917 9310 / jgronnevet@ohchr.org
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13651-un-torture-prevention-experts-visit-kyrgyzstan




Date: 10 September 2018
Title: UNODC supports Kyrgyz Ministry of Interior in new Anti-Drug Law Development
Content: 10 September 2018
The draft Law was developed by the UNODC experts jointly with the working group members.
The current acting law is 20 years old. It was adopted in 1998 and according to Mr. Bakyt Matmusaev, Head of the Counter Narcotics Service (CNS) of the Kyrgyz Ministry of Interior – “the current law is already outdated and does not meet modern requirements, so there was a need to improve this law, despite the fact changes were introduced to it”. "The development of the draft law is also important in connection with the need to implement a number of new Codes of the Kyrgyz Republic, which will come into effect on 01 January 2019," he added.
"UNODC provides comprehensive support to the efforts of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic to ensure a national drug control regime, in conjunction with recently initiated Law Enforcement reform. Our experts have done a tremendous job in analyzing the current legislation with the legal and regulatory framework of both the Kyrgyz Republic and the international one. They were tasked to analyze and bring the law in line with all three UN drug control conventions – from the 61-st year, the 71-st and 88-th years, and provide recommendations”, said Mr. Yusuf Kurbonov, International Programme Coordinator, UNODC in Central Asia.
This work is conducted in accordance with the decree of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the implementation of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedural Codes of the Kyrgyz Republic No.120 as of 14 April 2017 and the decision of the State Coordinating Committee on Drug Control as of 28 June 2018.
UNODC experts conducted analysis of the legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic and made proposals related to the establishment / determining of the volume of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors for qualification purposes in conjunction with committed offenses and crimes.
The draft resolution of the Kyrgyz Government on National Lists of narcotics, psychotropic substances and precursors and their volume, influencing the qualification of offenses/crimes under the Criminal Code and codes on violations and misdemeanors was also considered as part of the interagency working group meeting.
As a result, new version of the law with recommendations has been submitted to the CNS for further submission to the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic for consideration.
This activity is a part of the UNODC project on Support to Drug Control issues of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia 2015-2019 with US$2.7 million contribution from the Government of Japan.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13654-unodc-supports-kyrgyz-ministry-interior-new-anti-drug-law-development




Date: 06 September 2018
Title: Kyrgyzstan: Ensure broad, participatory and transparent selection of Ombudsperson
Content: 06 September 2018
BISHKEK – Kyrgyzstan will select a new Ombudsperson to lead the country’s human rights institution for the next five years following Kubat Otorbaev’s resignation from the post in June 2018. Each of Kyrgyzstan’s parliamentary fractions has been asked to nominate up to three candidates and Parliament will then choose the Ombudsperson through a majority vote. However, the law governing the process provides little guidance to the parliamentary fractions and their affiliated parties on how to identify suitable candidates.
“The manner in which the Ombudsperson is selected will likely have great importance for the future trajectory and strength of the institution. Kyrgyzstan should use this crucial moment to ensure that the new Ombudsperson is selected through a broad, participatory and transparent process,” said Ryszard Komenda, Head of the UN Human Rights Office in Central Asia.
When the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions in March 2012 accredited Kyrgyzstan’s Ombudsman as partially compliant with the international standards, the so-called Paris Principles, it highlighted, among other concerns, that vacancies for the posts of Ombudsman and Deputy Ombudsman had not been advertised widely.
A process that ensures pluralism in line with the Paris Principles would include broad advertising of the vacancy, with the aim of reaching all potential candidates, including women and minorities. “Such a process would promote the independence of, and people’s trust in, the office of Kyrgyzstan’s Ombudsperson”, said Komenda.

For more information or media requests, please contact: Peter Naderer (+996 770 70 10 36 / pnaderer@ohchr.org)
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13649-kyrgyzstan-ensure-broad-participatory-and-transparent-selection-ombudsperson




Date: 02 September 2018
Title: Youth from Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan joined efforts for peace and gender equality
Content: 02 September 2018
In addition, the camp facilitated networking and exchange of knowledge among young people from cross-border provinces, so that upon arrival they could conduct a series of advocacy actions on promoting gender equality, access to natural resources, inclusive and efficient natural resources management processes.
“I’m very happy to be part of this project, participating in it, I strengthened my knowledge not only on gender equality, access to natural resources and efficient management of natural resources, but also made new friends among young people from Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. I believe our friendship will be strengthened over time, and we will jointly conduct plenty of useful projects and events” shares Kaniet Jamilova from Batken province, Kyrgyzstan.
Also, participants worked with innovative media tools, such as shooting and producing video materials and organizing forum theatres on topics such as gender inequality and domestic violence, fake news and media literacy, youth activism and their role in peacebuilding.
“Thanks to this camp, I gained useful knowledge and learned about media literacy and how to prepare multimedia products. Thanks to this project, we made new friends among youth in Tajikistan and will strengthen our friendship with them” says Talant Shamshiev from Batken province, Kyrgyzstan.
On the last day, participants presented their action plans, describing how they will multiply knowledge gained and increase awareness on issues, related to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), efficient natural resource management, women empowerment and media literacy. To increase awareness of SDGs, specifically on SDG 5 Gender Equality, SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation and SDG 10 Reduced Inequality, participants plan to conduct training sessions to school and university students, also through forum theatres, preparing multimedia products and conducting debates afterwards on gender inequality, domestic violence, and rational use of water. Also, participants plan to conduct sessions on media literacy to show how to verify information in social media, strengthen critical thinking and conduct actions on UN Security Council Resolution 2250 on Youth, Peace and Security; UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. These events are planned to start from September to December 2018, reaching over 4,500 people in border communities.
Munira Akhmedova, Sughd province, Tajikistan: “I’m in Issyk-Kul for the first time, thanks to this summer camp, participants from Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan became friends and will be able to implement joint activities in the future.”
Participants established their own network, named “Youth for Peace” existing now via Facebook, where young people from border provinces of both countries will share reports on completed advocacy actions and campaigns.
The summer camp has been initiated by UN Women Europe and Central Asia Regional Office in support to the joint cross-border project funded by UN Peacebuilding Fund and implemented by UN Women Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in partnership with other UN agencies.This camp was organized in partnership with the Representative Office of the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES) in the Kyrgyz Republic with support from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13647-youth-kyrgyzstan-and-tajikistan-joined-efforts-peace-and-gender-equality




Date: 20 August 2018
Title: UN Women debriefed the Government Office on “Livelihoods through Participation and Equal Access to Water” project results
Content: 20 August 2018
The purpose of the meeting was the formal hand-over of knowledge products developed within the “Livelihoods through Participation and Equal Access to Water” project and brief Government on its results. The Government officials thanked UN Women Kyrgyzstan for the practical approach to project implementation, real partnership with the state at various levels and the generation of replicable products in line with Government strategies, such as the AIMAK e-governance system.
Mr. Jenishbek Asankulov, the Head of the Government Office unit on Local Self-Government, highlighted the need for replication of AIMAK in all municipalities, as AIMAK has great potential to be the primary data management tool for the Government big data strategy TUNDUK. AIMAK which has been refined over some time in 2018, the Year of Regional Development, was a timely contribution to ensuring local e-governance. UN Women was requested to replicate AIMAK within its new projects, such as those funded by the UN Peace-building Fund. UN Women agreed to this request and invited the Government Office to make suggestions for the further expansion of geographical and thematic coverage of AIMAK.
The UN Women executed “Securing Livelihoods for the Vulnerable through their Participation in Local Governance and the Efficient use of Water Resources” was implemented between October 2015 and June 2018 in partnership with the Rural Advisory Services, Jalalabad. The project was part of the broader FinWaterWEI II programme implemented in Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan with Government of Finland as donor and SYKE as the donor’s administrator.
Implemented in seven municipalities within three provinces of the Kyrgyz Republic, the project aimed at securing livelihoods for vulnerable women, men and children through efficient on-farm use of water and equitable community governance of water resources. As a direct result, the project improved access of over 18,000 water users, including 3,000 from vulnerable groups, to irrigation water in seven municipalities in Kyrgyzstan.  Yet, more important and the primary aim of the project was the elaboration of a new model integrating local self-government, water users’ associations, schools and vulnerable women to ensure access of all to irrigation water through participatory governance.
The project helped enhance UN Women’s e-governance suite AIMAK which enables local self-governments to provide services more effectively and efficiently to citizens and is being considered by the central government to be integral part of the national e-governance system.
The project’s emphasis on improving life and livelihoods skills of secondary school children prevents early marriages and reduces the incidence of domestic violence. It provides for economically attractive and sustainable alternatives to migration of young people from their villages.
Key to the project’s success was UN Women’s direct engagement in project implementation, a philosophy that sets UN Women Kyrgyzstan apart from many development partners. UN Women Kyrgyzstan directly implements aspects of its projects in areas where UN Women personnel have comparative advantage, drawing on civil society and private sector service providers in areas where they offer comparative advantage, rather than contracting out all funds and implementation responsibilities to third parties. This approach ensures that UN Women is fully engaged in project implementation, can ensure quality, and through building direct partnerships with state and community actors can ensure the key ingredient to successful project implementation for sustainable development which is the mobilisation and networking of local partners in project communities so that the local governance structure as established is made functional.
Within the framework of the project, the collaboration has been strengthened between local governments and water user associations (WUAs), including the community in seven municipalities through various interventions such as:
•         introduction of the AIMAK e-governance system in seven municipalities
•         introduction of an information system for Water User Associations (WUAs) on water users accounting and electronic water resources management in six WUAs
•         introduction of extra-curricular education courses "My Safe and Peaceful School" and "My Prosperous Farm" for secondary school students
•         creation of self-help groups among vulnerable women to improve their economic status and their empowerment to participate in the community development processes
•         advocacy initiatives of school students among community residents about equal opportunities and access to water resources and their effective use
•         support of small WUA infrastructure initiatives to ensure equal and timely access of water users, including those from vulnerable groups
•         support of small infrastructure initiatives of schools to improve WASH conditions in 13 schools in seven municipalities
Knowledge products that were handed over:
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13643-un-women-debriefed-government-office-%E2%80%9Clivelihoods-through-participation-and-equal-access




Date: 01 August 2018
Title: Management of violent extremist prisoners in Kyrgyzstan: The Case of Prison 27
Content: 01 August 2018
The prison houses approximately 700 prisoners, including more than 80 who have been convicted for crimes related to violent extremism. The latter are accommodated in a dedicated wing of the prison separate from the other prisoners.
The decision to separate violent extremist prisoners from the general prison population, unprecedented for Kyrgyzstan’s penal colony-type system where prisoners are normally accommodated together in large dormitories, was taken following a violent prison break in another prison in 2015. The escape attempt involved violent extremist prisoners and left several prison staff and prisoners dead.
On 1 August, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) officially handed over a newly constructed laundry facility in prison 27 equipped with 3 large-capacity washing machines. The new facility was created with funding from the Government of Japan.
“Since 2016, we have invested in the creation of this prison wing for violent extremist prisoners”, said Mr. Zhorobek Duishenbiev, the Deputy Chair of the State Prison Service of the Kyrgyz Republic. “Thanks to the financial support provided by the Government of Japan, we have been able to improve the conditions of detention in this prison considerably. The interventions we are piloting in partnership with UNODC allow us to work more effectively with prisoners to promote their social reintegration and prevent recruitment into the ranks of violent extremist groups”.
During the handover ceremony, the Ambassador of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic, H.E. Mr. Yoshihiro Yamamura, presented a group of 8 prisoners with certificates to mark their successful completion of a practical training course giving them knowledge and skills to manufacture leather and felt products. In total, 35 violent extremist prisoners have already successfully passed such training and are engaged in the production of souvenirs and art work made from leather and felt. They also paint and draw.
“It is encouraging to see how various disengagement interventions are piloted in this prison”, noted H.E. Mr. Yoshihiro Yamamura. “Vocational training is a core element of prisoner rehabilitation and the Government of Japan fully supports the efforts of the State Prison Service of the Kyrgyz Republic to establish and implement such programs”.
In addition to the improvement of sanitary conditions and the implementation of vocational training and income generation programs, the Japanese-funded project paid particular attention to measures enhancing prison security. Cell blocks holding violent extremist prisoners were equipped with an innovative video surveillance and intercom system. This system not only allows for better monitoring of prisoners by prison staff, but also enables prisoners to easily contact and ask for support from prison staff directly from their cells.
“Prison administrations need to decide for themselves how to house violent extremist prisoners within their prison system. Separating violent extremist prisoners from the general prison population offers some advantages, but also poses new challenges and risks”, said Mr. Koen Marquering, Acting Head of the UNODC Program Office in the Kyrgyz Republic. “To increase the chance of success in working with this category of prisoners, UNODC promotes a comprehensive approach, which simultaneously addresses a range of issues, such as prison conditions, security management, prison staff capacity, risk assessment and classification, and social reintegration through psychological counselling, social work interventions; faith-based dialogue; vocational training, sport and recreation and support to prisoners to maintain their family ties”.
In line with this approach, UNODC procured sports equipment for the prisoners who now have the possibility to play table tennis during their daily time out of their cells. The prison wing for violent extremist prisoners also houses a new library where prisoners can loan books to read in their cells.
Office space for psychologists and social workers has been improved. A computer with internet connection enables prisoners to talk to their loved ones using a webcam and software for video calls.
“Another innovative aspect of our joint work with the Prison Service involves the introduction of new software for electronic registration of visits, packages and parcels”, Marquering noted. “The idea behind this initiative is to move from an outdated paper-based to a more efficient electronic format for the registration of documents and other items with the support of a new computer, printer and passport scanner. This is expected to improve the level of control of what enters the prison and reduce waiting times for family and other visitors who come to see their loved ones or bring food and other essential items to the prisoners”.
Prison 27 was the first prison where UNODC supported the Kyrgyz Prison Service to strengthen the management of violent extremist prisoners and prevent radicalization to violence. UNODC continues to assist the authorities to implement similar programs in several other pilot prisons within the framework of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13634-management-violent-extremist-prisoners-kyrgyzstan-case-prison-27




Date: 01 August 2018
Title: UNODC expert: “Strong family ties are good for the mental health of prisoners and help them prepare for their return to the community”
Content: 01 August 2018
“When prisoners regularly see their family and friends, this can have a positive impact on their psychological health and motivate them to desist from future offending”, said Koen Marquering, Acting Head of UNODC in the Kyrgyz Republic. “It is important to help prisoners maintain, or re-establish, contact with their family during their time in custody.”
Prison 47 was first built in 1945 and currently accommodates approximately 800 offenders. There is also a newly established wing for violent extremist prisoners in the prison where UNODC and the Government of Japan have supported the Prison Service to improve security management and implement social rehabilitation programs.
Cell blocks holding violent extremist prisoners were equipped with video surveillance, portable radios and secure doors. Office furniture was provided, and air-conditioning installed for prison staff. Sports equipment was procured for the prisoners. Workshops were created to engage prisoners in the manufacturing of leather and felt products.
“Before we did everything by hand. Now our security system is automated, which makes it easier for our staff to do their job and manage the prison”, said Mirzabek Adilbekov, Deputy Chairman of the Prison Service. “In addition to the new room for family visits, new office space has been created for our psychologist and social worker. This is important for our rehabilitation work with prisoners.”
As custodian of the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (i.e. the Nelson Mandela Rules), UNODC provides technical assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic in the field of penal reform. With support from the Government of Japan, UNODC also assists national authorities to implement the 2017-2022 State Program to Counter Extremism and Terrorism.
Efforts to reduce vulnerability to violent extremism will continue during the upcoming period within the framework of a new joint United Nations initiative funded by the UN Peacebuilding Fund, as part of which UNODC supports measures to prevent radicalization to violence in prisons and improve the governance of the penitentiary system and probation services to manage violent extremist offenders.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13637-unodc-expert-%E2%80%9Cstrong-family-ties-are-good-mental-health-prisoners-and-help-them-prepare-their




Date: 23 July 2018
Title: Kyrgyz celebrities urge their fans to be kinder to HIV infected people
Content: 23 July 2018
On July 18, 2018, a new media campaign #БоорукерБол #БудьДобрее (“be kinder”) aimed at overcoming stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV was presented in Bishkek. The campaign will reach about 1,000,000 social network users in Kyrgyzstan.
The media campaign was launched by the UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education with the support from the Joint United Nations Program on HIV / AIDS (UNAIDS).
Famous people of Kyrgyzstan among them artists, musicians and TV presenters Mr Kairat Primberdiyev, Ms Zhijdesh Idirisova and Mr. Erkin Ryskulbekov took part in the campaign.
“I am happy that I was able to take part in this initiative. Many people recognize me on the street and I want to use it for good: I want to inform my fans and the citizens of the country at large that HIV-infected people have the same rights and opportunities as people living without HIV”, says Mr. Kairat Primberdiev - a singer and musician, the finalist of the 5th season of the TV show called “The Voice”.
The presentation of the campaign coincided with the appointment of Mr Erkin Ryskulbekov, a popular TV presenter, showman and producer to the position of the official UNAIDS Goodwill Ambassador in Kyrgyzstan.
“For me it is not only a great honour but also an enormous responsibility. I have been working with the UNAIDS office in Kyrgyzstan for several years and I want to do even more in my new capacity in order to completely eradicate manifestations of stigma and discrimination, especially against children and teenagers having HIV.” "
As of June 1, 2018 there were 8,323 people living with HIV registered in the Kyrgyz Republic, of whom 636 are children and teenagers. The level of stigma associated with HIV-positive persons remains high. The new media campaign is aimed not only at making people aware of HIV, but also intends to demonstrate that many fears and prejudices related to people living with HIV are greatly exaggerated.
The campaign is directed by Mr Azim Azimov, the head of “Media Kitchen”.
“In 2017 a series of videos was created with the financial support of UNAIDS for the social campaign #ТыНеОдинок (“you are not alone”) and the UNAIDS Goodwill Ambassador Ms Vera Brezhneva and young Kyrgyz stars took part in it.”
“After the campaign, we were faced with a very paradoxical phenomenon: on the one hand, the stars were eagerly participating in such initiatives, but on the other, in the comments to the videos we noticed misunderstanding and resentment of the Internet users. But, as experience and time showed, the participation of popular performers, actors, presenters and bloggers can positively influence the perception of discrimination against HIV-positive children and the reduction of stigma towards them. To a great extent this project was made possible thanks to Mr Erkin Ryskulbekov, who made an invaluable contribution and became the main driving force behind this action.
The video is made in the genre of a documentary with elements of the reality show. The celebrities talk to young people on hot topics and get frank statements. Each of the guys who took part in the media campaign made a significant contribution and I think that the campaign was successful. Now it's up to the audience from whom we will receive feedback.”
The UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education and the UNAIDS office in Kyrgyzstan welcome the well - known TV presenters and popular performers among the fighters with the HIV epidemic.
“It is very important that well - known people join such educational and awareness projects. They help us to really communicate to the widest audience very simple but at the same time fundamental ideas: responsible attitude towards one’s health, caring for one’s relatives, mutual respect, equality and kindness. It is encouraging to see that each year more and more popular and talented people are ready to join our initiatives and that the design of ​​every new media campaign allows talking to the audience in an interesting and understandable language. This gives us hope that soon we shall forget the phenomenon of stigma and discrimination,” says Mr Tigran Yepoyan, UNESCO Regional HIV and Health Education Adviser.
Additional information on HIV prevention in Kyrgyzstan can be obtained from Ms Meerim Sarybaeva, the UNAIDS Country Director (e-mail: sarybaevam@unaids.org).
Please see the photos HERE.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13622-kyrgyz-celebrities-urge-their-fans-be-kinder-hiv-infected-people




Date: 18 July 2018
Title: Nelson Mandela Centenary – UNODC promotes humane approach to prison management in Central Asia
Content: 18 July 2018
“This year’s observance of the day is special, given that we celebrate what would have been the 100th birthday of Nelson Mandela”, said Ms. Ashita Mittal, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) Regional Representative for Central Asia. “UNODC is committed to assist the Central Asian countries to promote humane conditions of imprisonment and ensure no part of society is forgotten.”
Nelson Mandela International Day was established in 2009 to coincide with the former South African President’s birthday and has since had one simple goal – to help change the world for the better. The day has grown into more than simply a celebration of Nelson Mandela’s life and legacy and is now a call to continue his work to improve the lives of people everywhere.
To mark Nelson Mandela International Day in Central Asia, UNODC partnered with authorities and prison administrations throughout the region to organize a wide range of public awareness raising initiatives drawing attention to the importance of implementing the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, known as the Nelson Mandela Rules.
In Kyrgyzstan, UNODC and the Prison Service of the Kyrgyz Republic organized a volleyball tournament – one among prisoners and the second among prison staff in one of the largest male penitentiary facilities. In Turkmenistan, the National Institute for Democracy and Human Rights under the President of Turkmenistan hosted an interactive lecture and contest on the Nelson Mandela Rules for cadets of the Police Academy and students of the State University of Turkmenistan’s Law faculty and the Institute for International Relations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In Uzbekistan, UNODC teamed up with the General Prosecutor’s Office to produce a video on the Nelson Mandela Rules and ongoing reform efforts in the country for wide broadcasting on national TV. A roundtable on the development of penal legislation is also planned in August.
As the guardian of the Nelson Mandela Rules, UNODC is responsible for providing technical assistance and advisory services to Member States in the field of penal reform. To achieve this goal, UNODC supports Central Asian countries to reduce the scope of imprisonment, strengthen prison management, help to raise prison standards and ensure the reintegration of prisoners upon their release.
Well-managed prisons and the treatment of prisoners consistent with international standards and norms for crime prevention and criminal justice is a precondition for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, including Goal 16 aimed at promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, ensuring access to justice for all and building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.
In December 2015, the General Assembly adopted the revised United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners. The rules are a blueprint for prison management to address these issues, and provide solutions based on the core principles of security, safety and dignity within all prisons and for all prisoners. The rules result from five years of inter-governmental consultations and represent a landmark harmonization of the original version (1957) with international law and good prison management practices.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13618-nelson-mandela-centenary-%E2%80%93-unodc-promotes-humane-approach-prison-management-central-asia




Date: 17 July 2018
Title: UNODC-WCO Global Container Control Programme donates two minibuses to Kyrgyz Customs Service
Content: 17 July 2018
The donation ceremony was attended by Mr. Shamil Berdaliev, First Deputy Chairman of the Kyrgyz State Customs Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, Mr. Batyr Geldiyev, UNODC Regional Programme Coordinator,Mr. Ryota Saito, Attache of the Japanese Embassy in the Kyrgyz Republic and Mr. Alexey Krysanov, representative from the Export Control and Border Security programme of the U.S. Embassy in the Kyrgyz Republic.
“Today’s handover intends to strengthen the work of the Port Control Unites in Bishkek and Osh cities”, said Shamil Berdaliev, First Deputy Chairman of the Kyrgyz State Customs Service. “These special unites were established to combat illicit drug trafficking and other criminal activities in Kyrgyzstan and the key purpose of minibuses is to strengthen the capacity of those units while conducting operations”.
According to Mr. Batyr Geldiyev, UNODC Regional Programme Coordinator: “Kyrgyzstan is a priority country for UNODC since it is on the frontline of the flow of Afghan opiates and have a key role to play in the fight against drugs in the region. We hope that provided assistance will support the State Customs Service in effective targeting of high risks consignments”.
“I believe the donated minibuses will have a positive impact on security in the Central Asian region, including the Kyrgyz Republic”, said Mr. Ryota Saito, Attache of the Japanese Embassy in the Kyrgyz Republic on behalf of H.E. Mr. Yoshihiro Yamamura, Plenipotentiary and Extraordinary Ambassador of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic.
Kyrgyz Sate Customs Service has acknowledged the valuable support of the UNODC and awarded the UNODC Regional Office for Central Asia with the letter of appreciation for fruitful cooperation, and UNODC staff with the medal for “Strengthening of customs cooperation” of the State Customs Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The Port Control Units were established in 2017 under the central Apparatus of the Kyrgyz Customs Service and South-West customs in Osh city aimed at systematically analyzing and profiling cargo / containers at increased risk to detect illicit drug trafficking and other illegal activities, at the same time facilitating legitimate trade.
Since Kyrgyzstan joined the Programme in December 2015, the UNODC-World Customs Organization (WCO) Global Container Control Programme (CCP) Regional Segment for Central Asia had conducted a number of training-courses for the Kyrgyz Customs officers strengthening their professional knowledge on profiling and suppressing high risk consignments, provided specialized equipment and access to secure communication system ContainerComm.
The handover ceremony conducted as part of the UNODC -World Customs Organization (WCO) Global Container Control Programme (CCP) Regional Segment for Central Asia funded by the Government of Japan, the U.S. Department of State Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) and the Export Control and Border Security (EXBS) Program.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13617-unodc-wco-global-container-control-programme-donates-two-minibuses-kyrgyz-customs-service




Date: 08 July 2018
Title: Japan steps up support to rural women in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 08 July 2018
This donation will build on the proven success of women’s empowerment activities implemented by WFP over the last few years in partnership with the Kyrgyz Republic’s Ministry of Labour and Social Development.
This contribution will help WFP to reach more than 15,500 vulnerable people in the rural areas of Naryn, Talas, Osh, Jalal-Abad and Batken provinces with support to build income-related assets such as fruit and vegetable gardens and to create small businesses while improving rural infrastructure.
“WFP is grateful for the continuous commitment from Japan to improving food security and nutrition initiatives for rural women,” said Andrea Bagnoli, Country Director of WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic. “Supporting women-led businesses is the smartest investment to improve the food security and nutrition of vulnerable households and boost local development.”
Through this programme, WFP aims to expand women-led food-processing businesses to produce dairy products, wool, jams and pickles as well as dried fruits and vegetables – all on a commercial scale. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) will provide high-quality equipment as well as technical and operational expertise to increase the capacity of Kyrgyz women producers.
“We are proud that our contributions are being utilized efficiently and are reaching key target populations enabling rural women to take the driver’s seat in leading local developments. WFP’s proven success in the economic empowerment of rural women in the Kyrgyz Republic inspired the decision to extend our support,” said Yoshihiro Yamamura, Ambassador of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic. “We are honoured to join forces with WFP to invest in women to boost economic development and the well-being of rural communities in the Kyrgyz Republic.”
WFP will also use the funds to provide women with training on crop production, storage, processing and marketing, which will be delivered through a national short-term training programme, Skills, Knowledge and Practices (SKaP).
SKaP was developed with WFP support as a vocational programme for low-income families. To date, the project has provided support to about 10,000 rural households, most of them headed by women.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13615-japan-steps-support-rural-women-kyrgyz-republic




Date: 06 July 2018
Title: More than 150 doctors, child psychologists and social workers from 5 countries of the region improved their capacity to provide assistance and support to children and teenagers with HIV
Content: 06 July 2018
The workshop was attended by doctors, child psychologists and social workers from Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Belarus and the Russian Federation. Jointly with their colleagues from the Children’s HIV Association (CHIVA) and the Pediatric European Network for Treatment of AIDS (PENTA) the participants reviewed difficult and clinical cases of children with HIV infection in the region, discussed the ways of overcoming stigma and discrimination and shared their own experience.
In his welcoming speech, Mr. Erkin Checheibaev, Deputy Minister of Healthcare of the Kyrgyz Republic, said: “Kyrgyzstan became the first country in Central Asia to host an international event of such format. It is a great honor for the country to receive dear guests from fraternal states. This opportunity to show our openness and political commitment in fighting against HIV infection gives us hope that together we will be able to overcome the epidemic in the region.”
According to statistics, in 2016 more than 153,000 new cases of HIV were registered in region of Europe, of which 18 % in Western Europe, 3 % in the Central Europe and 79 % in the Eastern Europe and the Central Asia.
Simultaneously with the workshop, the first Central Asian Forum - camp for children and teenagers with HIV was arranged. 50 teenagers from Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Belarus worked for five days with parents, psychologists and social workers to adopt their own status and develop commitment to treatment.
“We are pleased to welcome younger participants in the Forum and their parents. We hope that you will not only spend your time with advantage, but also be able to make friends with your peers from different countries, think about how to help other teenagers fight stigma and discrimination, and will be able to unite. I would like to wish fruitful work for the adults. It is important to remember that overcoming the HIV epidemic is possible only if we can unite our joint efforts,” – said Ms. Meerim Sarybaeva, UNAIDS country director in Kyrgyzstan.
At present there are over 600 teenagers with registered HIV infection living in Kyrgyzstan. Stigma and discrimination against them remain high, therefore it is important that parents, doctors, psychologists and social workers know how to effectively help them.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13381-more-150-doctors-child-psychologists-and-social-workers-5-countries-region-improved-their




Date: 29 June 2018
Title: MAPS Mission Seminar with Government
Content: 29 June 2018
The Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic greeted the participants of the seminar and expressed gratitude to the UN System for effective cooperation and assistance. In his speech, the Prime Minister stressed that the Government will continue to work towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
In his speech, the Prime Minister drew particular attention to the development of interaction with the civil sector, the business community, as there are intentions to reformat the ongoing work and build it on the basis of openness and public-private partnership.
The government will continue systematic work on the introduction of electronic services. The Prime Minister noted that this year 45 electronic services have been introduced.
"From the very beginning of the process, Kyrgyzstan has actively participated in the preparation and discussion of the global agenda for sustainable development, in defining the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) until 2030. We are ready to promote the SDGs, taking into account the national priorities and interests of Kyrgyzstan."
The head of the Government also confirmed the intention of the country to continue to work on achieving the SDGs in the context of the National Sustainable Development Strategy for the period up to 2040 and the medium-term strategy of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic for 2018-2022 "Unity. Trust. Creation."
After listening to the reports of experts, the Prime Minister said that he was satisfied with the work carried out and all the conclusions made by the mission will be transferred to the relevant state bodies and departments for further consideration.
In his welcoming speech, the UN Resident Coordinator in Kyrgyzstan Ozonnia Ojielo told that Kyrgyzstan is charting its own development pathway. The arrival of the MAPS mission was timely and would allow us all to identify and develop a roadmap for achieving the SDGs. Subsequent support will help the government of Kyrgyzstan to conduct more effective work in achieving the SDGs and its further structural transformation in matters of human rights, gender, economy and society.
The expert of the mission Elena Danilova-Cross presented the results of a rapid integrated assessment in Kyrgyzstan and stressed that there are certain achievements, but it is necessary to work on a monitoring and evaluation system for all state programs and it is important to determine the long-term development path of the country.
Minister of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic Kudaiberdiyeva Gulmira Karimovna made comments on the speech of experts. "Kyrgyzstan is a very young country, 39% of the population are young people. In any reform there is a figure of the teacher - investments in the teaching staff are needed. In Kyrgyzstan, 79,000 teachers work, and serious work is needed here."
The Minister of Social Welfare told that her ministry is developing a strategy for the development of social support and it would be grateful for the MAPS experts to provide technical support in the development of this document.
"We propose to unify all state programs. Now there are more than 220 different programs in the country, we would like to make them more comprehensive and reduce to 20-25 "- Daniyar Imanaliev, head of the department of economy and investments of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic.
PHOTOS can be seen HERE.



UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13380-maps-mission-seminar-government




Date: 26 June 2018
Title: UNODC supports the Kyrgyz Government in fight against drug trafficking
Content: 26 June 2018
“Total global opium production jumped by 65 per cent from 2016 to 2017, to 10,500 tons, easily the highest estimate recorded by UNODC since it started monitoring global opium production at the beginning of the twenty-first century”, said Vera Tkachenko, i.o. Head of the Programme Office of the United Nations Office on drugs and crime in the Kyrgyz Republic at her presentation.
Some 50 representatives of governmental bodies, international organizations, civil society and media took part at the State Coordination Committee on drug control meeting held on 28 June, devoted to the 26 June – International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Drug Trafficking.  The event was organized by the Kyrgyz Ministry of Interior in cooperation with the United Nations Programme Office on drugs and crime in the Kyrgyz Republic (UNODC).
The coordination committee aims at consolidation of efforts of all state institutions in creating an effective model of coordination in the sphere of drug control at national level.
“The consequences caused by drug trafficking are our common problem, which we all need to pay special attention to”, said Azamat Araev, Head of the Defense, Law and Order and Emergency Situations department of the Governmental Apparatus of the Kyrgyz Republic. "It is possible to improve the complicated drug situation that was developed in order to enable people of Kyrgyzstan to live without the drugs threat and associated with them negative social phenomena."
According to the World Drug Report 2018, presented today by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), drug markets are expanding, and the production of cocaine and opium reaches absolute record levels, presenting numerous challenges on several fronts. Between 2000 and 2015, the number of deaths caused directly by drug use increased by 60 percent.
"The spread of drug abuse is still one of the global threats," said Yoshihiro Yamamuro, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic. "Practice shows that the successful fight against the drug threat directly depends on the close cooperation of the relevant departments of the countries of the region with international organizations. Undoubtedly, UNODC projects make a significant contribution to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. I am convinced that a systematic approach and active efforts at all available levels will contribute to combating illicit drug trafficking and will have a positive impact on security both in the Kyrgyz Republic and in the region as a whole. "
At the meeting, reports were presented by the Organizational and Analytical Department of the Counter Narcotics Service (CNS) of the Interior Ministry of the Kyrgyz Republic, CNS in Naryn and Issyk-Kul oblasts of Kyrgyzstan, as well as representatives of the Narcology Center and the Department of Drug Supply and Medical Equipment of the Kyrgyz Ministry of Health.
The Kyrgyz Ministry of Interior, the State Committee on National Security of the KR, the State Border Service of the Kyrgyz Republic and the State Penitentiary Service signed a regulation on cooperation in the sphere of combating illicit trafficking of drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors.
During the meeting, issues on the national and regional drug situation reviewed, results of the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Government's Antinarcotics Program announced, access to legal drugs and psychotropic substances for medical purposes in the country discussed.
Important to note that in March 2018, UNODC received funds from the Government of Japan in the amount of 2.7 mln. US dollars to support for drug control efforts in Kyrgyzstan.
These efforts will be aimed at supporting strong national legislation on drug control, national operational capacities on drug law enforcement, as well as for enhancing the capacities of other competent authorities in maintaining the legal turnover of controlled narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors under the ratified UN conventions. As part of a balanced and comprehensive integrated strategy, the health consequences of drug use especially for the young and vulnerable population will also be addressed.
The State Coordination Meeting is devoted to 26 June – International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. #WorldDrugDay, under the slogan – “Listen First”.
As part of this day, the Programme Office of the UNODC in Kyrgyzstan conducts number of events in cooperation with Kyrgyz Ministry of Interior and the State Agency for Youth, Physical Culture and Sports under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic: on 18 June – launched series of social, motivational videos for youth “Line Up, Live Up”; on 22 June – Cross Country Running in Botanical Garden under the name of E. Gareev (Ahunbaeva street), Bishkek; on 26 June – the State Coordination Committee on drug control meeting; on 27 June – Line Up, Live Up sport activities on streetball, volleyball and freestyle wrestling in Osh city.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13378-unodc-supports-kyrgyz-government-fight-against-drug-trafficking




Date: 22 June 2018
Title: UNODC strengthens intelligence analytical capacity of Central Asian law enforcement agencies
Content: 22 June 2018
Knowledge of effective use of these programmes will support them in developing effective, timely management decisions in the fight against organized crime and drug trafficking.
“Since 2008 UNODC has donated “IBM i2” license keys to 18 law enforcement agencies in the Central Asian region”, said Amelia Hannaford, Head of UNODC Programme Office in Tajikistan. “In this way, UNODC is strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation and creating direct links between the law enforcement analysts at the national and regional levels, as well as enhancing the networking”.
The seminar participants had also improved their knowledge on challenges and threats associated with the use of «DeepWeb» and «DarkNet» for criminal purposes that analysts encounter in their daily work.
The program "ArgGis" allows you to visualize large amounts of statistical information on the drug situation with geo-referencing in the form of a digital map.
I2 software products allow analysts to quickly compare, analyze and visualize data from various sources, thus reducing time for search of information in the complex massive data. They also enable detecting, foreseeing, preventing and countering criminal, terroristic and fraudulent activities. This information provides detection and suppression of criminal and cyber threats.
The training was organized by the UNODC Regional Office for Central Asia in the frame of Sub-Programme-1 of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia 2015-2019, that is aimed at Countering transnational organized crime, illicit drug trafficking and preventing terrorism.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13375-unodc-strengthens-intelligence-analytical-capacity-central-asian-law-enforcement-agencies




Date: 18 June 2018
Title: Line Up, Live Up! UNODC launches awareness raising campaign on the power of sports as a tool for crime prevention
Content: 18 June 2018
The public service announcements (PSAs), which promote sports as a tool for healthy living and prevention of crime, violence and substance use, have been produced as part of UNODC’s Regional Programme for Central Asia and the organization’s Global Programme for the Implementation of the Doha Declaration. The latter was formed following the adoption of the Doha Declaration at the 2015 United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, held in Qatar.
In line helping countries achieve a positive and sustainable impact on crime prevention and criminal justice, one of the Global Programme’s four areas focusses on providing sports-based, life-skills training curriculum for youth aged 13-18. This initiative –  Line Up, Live Up – strengthens youth resilience to crime, violence and drug use by enhancing their personal and social skills and increasing their knowledge on the risks associated with these phenomena.
Speaking at the launch of the PSA’s in the Kyrgyz capital, Bishkek, the State Agency’s Deputy Director on Youth Policy, Mirlan Parkhanov, highlighted the importance of the work: “This joint project has helped the State Agency to enhance the capacity of sport coaches working with youth, to incorporate an interactive and innovative way of life skills training into physical education, thus helping youth better deal with everyday challenges in life and steer away from crime and drugs”.
The four PSA’s each highlight how sports can help to prevent anti-social behaviour and support youth to set goals and lead healthy lives. The first video, ‘Sport is my life’, showcases the lives of various children and their experience, feelings, perceptions and attitudes to sports. The second and third videos portray testimonials of two well-known Kyrgyz athletes – Aidana Otorbaeva, a national-level football player who recently signed a contract with a professional football club in Spain, and Kanat Kelsinbekov, a triathlete and Kyrgyzstan’s first ‘Iron man’ – who talk about the role of sports in their lives, how it helped them build resilience to negative influences and enhanced their capacity to communicate effectively. The final video highlights the role of sports in building resilience against crime by strengthening self-awareness and enhancing the ability of young people to say no to negative (peer) pressure.
The launch of the PSA’s coincides with the 2018 World Drug Day, which is held annually on 26 June. “With the start of our Line Up, Live Up campaign, UNODC kicks off a series of events to mark the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking”, noted Koen Marquering, International Coordinator at the UNODC Programme Office in Kyrgyzstan.
“The theme for World Drug Day 2018 is ‘Listen First’. Listening to children and youth is the first step to help them grow healthy and safe. The Line Up, Live Upinitiative shows how sports are an effective investment in the well-being of children and youth, their families and their communities,” Marquering added.
The Line Up, Live Up curriculum is an innovative, sports-based training course for youth, comprising 10 sessions. These are aimed at developing core life skills that enable youth to deal with the demands, stress and interpersonal conflicts of everyday life, thus positively influencing behaviour, and preventing anti-social and risky conduct. It can be implemented by trained coaches in school and non-school settings.
Within the 2017-2018 period, 64 sports coaches and physical education teachers from Bishkek city and Batken, Chuy, Jalal-Abad and Osh provinces were certified to deliver the sports-based life-skills development curriculum for over 800 youth in 42 pilot schools and other sports and educational centres.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13374-line-live-unodc-launches-awareness-raising-campaign-power-sports-tool-crime-prevention




Date: 18 June 2018
Title: United Nations in Kyrgyzstan refuses single-use plastic
Content: 18 June 2018

On June 5, as the world marked the World Environment Day with the slogan “Beat Plastic Pollution”: Refuse what you cannot re-use, UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo called in his video address on all the supermarkets and shops in Kyrgyzstan to sign MoU with the United Nations system that before the end of this year we collectively stop the use of plastics in the country.
Plastic shopping bags, which were rarity about 40 years ago, are now produced at a rate of one trillion a year globally. They are appearing in the darkest depths of the oceans to the summit of Mount Everest to the polar ice caps, posing serious environmental challenges. Our world is swamped by harmful plastic waste. Every year, more than 8 million tonnes end up in the oceans. Microplastics in the seas now outnumber stars in our galaxy. If present trends continue, by 2050 our oceans will have more plastic than fish.
Since 2004 the UN Agencies in Kyrgyzstan implemented more than 50 projects worth 45mln USD, some of which are still continuing to develop and implement innovative approaches to preserve the unique natural assets of the country. However, Kyrgyzstan remains vulnerable to climate change. Extremes in weather and climate and unsustainable natural resources management are resulting in processes which cause natural disasters and make the socio-economic situation even more fragile, putting additional pressure upon local communities. The annual direct economic losses alone incurred from natural disasters are estimated in the range of 1.0 - 1.5% of GDP.
The Kyrgyz Republic has a full potential to become a champion in the region in collectively protecting its beautiful nature, alpine lakes and mountains, which are major tourist attractions, from the plastic waste. The United Nations Country Team therefore also calls on its counterparts in the government, civil society, and development partners to stop using single-use plastics at their events and conferences in order to contribute to this important effort to reduce the heavy burden of plastic pollution on our natural places, our wildlife – and our own health.
Echoing Secretary-General António Guterres’ words, the UN Country Team in Kyrgyzstan states that we all have a role to play in protecting our environment, but it can be difficult to know what to do or where to start. That is why this year’s World Environment Day had just one request: beat plastic pollution. Our message is simple: reject single-use plastic. Refuse what you can’t re-use.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13373-united-nations-kyrgyzstan-refuses-single-use-plastic




Date: 31 May 2018
Title: UN Women improved access to irrigation water for over 20000 water users with over 3000 from vulnerable groups in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 31 May 2018
The female head of local self-government Ms. Roza Shamaeva underscored the uniqueness of the project that consolidated the entire community of Naiman village to promote gender equality and work to empower women and girls around water issues, including equal access to water and efficient use of water in their communities.
“It is exciting to note that the project engaged young people in important activities that develop life skills in the household and the village. And they are actively shaping knowledge about how to be a good citizen, based on respect for diversity; promote gender equality by involving women and youth in all aspects of social and economic life, promote the realization of economic rights,” stated Gerald Gunther, UN Women Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
Accordingly, more than 4,000 young people from the local communities acquired advocacy skills on gender equality issues and conducted advocacy campaigns for over 30,000 people from local communities on equal access and efficient use of natural resources.
These and other results and lessons learned of the project were discussed by heads of local self-governments, local councils, heads and school students of local educational institutions, Water Users Associations as well as UN Women staff on 18-19 May 2018 during the site visits in Naiman and Uch-Korgon villages of the southern villages of Kyrgyzstan.
The joint efforts of UN Women Country Office in Kyrgyzstan, Jalal-Abad Rural Advisory Service and Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in improving access to natural resources by vulnerable groups, including women and youth, would not have been possible without the financial support of the Government of Finland which allocated Euro 1 million for the project with a smaller amount added by UN Women.
The participants also familiarized themselves with the “Aimak” e-governance system in Naiman village. Aimak works with digitalized household books to generate various statistics reports disaggregated by sex, social status, and age and as well as various certification documents required to apply for social allowances or identity papers. Aimak provides the local component for the national e-governance system and will help with SDG localization and reporting. Aimak was also used in the project to ensure equal access to water.
With a strategy of leaving no one behind, the project aimed at strengthening and creating opportunities for vulnerable people, women and youth, to participate in fair and equitable distribution of water resources and to use effectively natural resources, namely land and water for sustainable and successful agriculture.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13372-un-women-improved-access-irrigation-water-over-20000-water-users-over-3000-vulnerable-groups




Date: 26 May 2018
Title: MAPS Mission from Millennium Development Goals to Sustainable Development Goals: Support for Inclusive and Sustainable Growth in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 26 May 2018
Minister of Economy Oleg Pankratov stated that the MAPS mission will help develop cross-sectoral solutions, identify issues hindering the acceleration, and define in its Roadmap to the development accelerators to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals in Kyrgyzstan.
In his opening speech, UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Ojielo said, “Every county has to chart its development path. When we look at the draft National Development Strategy, when we look at the “Unity, Trust, and Creation” Strategy, when we look at the Strategy for Development of the Regions, what is clear is that Kyrgyzstan is in search for its development pathway. We commend you on this unique approach to define for your country and for your people what you see as your pathway to development. Nobody can come to Kyrgyzstan and tell you how it is done. Our role as the United Nations System is accompaniment. We have to walk the journey with you. We will share the best possible ideas, we will share the best possible analysis, we will offer you some suggestions for your consideration on the way to development. One of the key questions this mission will help to answer is to validate the accelerators you have identified for your structural economic transformation, do the analytics, and bear out the choice what could be the accelerators. The second is what is the roadmap to these accelerators to speak to the national needs. In terms of policy, what is the policy approach between ministries and institutions in an integrated framework that allows you to realize your ambitions. But much more importantly, how it is going to be paid for. Where the financing will come from. We look at the tax revenues for Kyrgyzstan, we look at ODA, remittances, different forms of financing and hopefully offer some suggestions to compliment the discussion that are taking place within the government.”
And the MAPS mission’s visit is very timely as it will help define the roadmap to development accelerators as core priorities within the government’s broader strategies in order to achieve structural transformation of the country both in terms of economy and society, and position the country within the region. The MAPS roadmap and its continued support will help the Government of Kyrgyzstan to work much more effectively in achieving our Sustainable Development Goals and can potentially serve as platform to have a strategic dialogue with the government’s development partners.”
During the technical seminar the working groups discussed policy initiatives and measures aimed at improving the alignment of national priorities with SDGs, defining the accelerators for achieving the SDGs, studying institutional coordination mechanisms for improved monitoring of SDGs and the financing and budget development.
The participants of the technical seminar have identified the key development areas that require the government’s attention, as well as cross-sectoral coordination. The main priorities, identified by the participants, included the rule of law, digital governance and services, development of green economy and capacity building. All these priorities are reflected in the SDGs.
MAPS Team Leader George Bouma noted that the UN is ready to support the Government in realization of the national priorities in a best effective way through partnership with international organizations, state institutions, donor organizations, and civil society.
Upon completion of the visit the mission will prepare a Roadmap for the government, which will serve to translate the assessments, consultations, and stakeholder dialogues held during the mission into a concrete and practical tool to guide further action at the country level on the implementation of SDGs.
On 1 January 2016, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development — adopted by world leaders in September 2015 at an historic UN Summit — officially came into force.  Over the next fifteen years, with these new Goals that universally apply to all, countries will mobilize efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change, while ensuring that no one is left behind.
The SDGs, also known as Global Goals, build on the success of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and aim to go further to end all forms of poverty. The new Goals are unique in that they call for action by all countries, poor, rich and middle-income to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. They recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic growth and addresses a range of social needs including education, health, social protection, and job opportunities, while tackling climate change and environmental protection.
In response, the UN Development Group has committed to a common approach for effective and coherent implementation support entitled ‘MAPS’. MAPS stands for Mainstreaming, Acceleration and Policy Support. Mainstreaming refers to landing the SDGs into national, subnational and local plans for development and shaping budget allocations. Acceleration focuses on targeting resources and interventions to areas that can have maximum impacts across various goals and targets. Policy support refers to ensuring that the skills and expertise of the UN development system are rendered available in an efficient and timely way.
For more photos please go here.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13379-maps-mission-millennium-development-goals-sustainable-development-goals-support-inclusive-and




Date: 07 May 2018
Title: Best short film of 2018 on the refugee stories in Kyrgyz Republic (deadline extended)
Content: 07 May 2018
In Kyrgyz Republic there are some 170 recognized refugees under the national law on asylum and refugees (Refugee Act of 2002) - Convention Refugees. Convention Refugees have government-issued identify document, have access to all public services, have work permits and enjoy all basic rights. Most of them have been living in Kyrgyz Republic since many years, some of them are married to Kyrgyz nationals and have children born in Kyrgyz Republic. As such, many refugees are culturally and socio-economically well integrated into the Kyrgyz society. Nevertheless and despite such integration and long residence in Kyrgyz Republic they continue to face challenges in naturalization and acquiring citizenship of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Situation of another group of refugees in Kyrgyz Republic is far direr as unlike the recognized refugees (Convention Refugees), they do not hold any government-issued identity document or residence permits, they do not have work-permits and have limited access to the public services (Mandate Refugees). The State found them unmerited of the refugee status in Kyrgyz Republic and declined their asylum applications many years ago.
Many years ago UNHCR under its global mandate of protecting refugees undertook independent assessment of their asylum claims and found them credible – UNHCR recognized them as refugees under its protection mandate and refers to them as ‘Mandate Refugees’ in Kyrgyz Republic. Because of insecurity and persecution they were unable and are still unable and unwilling to go back to their countries of origin. They found safety here and live in Kyrgyz Republic.
Mandate Refugees have been living in Kyrgyz Republic since very long, some even more than 15 years. Some of them are married to Kyrgyz nationals and have children born in Kyrgyz Republic. Almost all of them speak local or Russian language by now and are culturally well integrated into the Kyrgyz society.
Because of the absence of documents, residence and work permits Mandate Refugees continue to face tremendous difficulties. Most of them are socio-economically vulnerable, unable to work legally or run businesses to provide for their families. Despite the fact that families of some of them are Kyrgyz citizens, have lived here more than ten years and are culturally well integrated, their stay in Kyrgyz Republic is considered ‘illegal’ according to the national laws.
With this Short Film Contest and part of the #WithRefugees campaign, UNHCR is trying to raise awareness on the plight and lives of the refugees in Kyrgyz Republic; highlight their stories and difficulties they face and draw attention of the public and the authorities to finding lasting solutions for them. Refugees have become part of the Kyrgyz society but according to the national laws they remain illegal in the country deprived of the basic rights which further exacerbates their families’ already dire socio-economic conditions. We want to find solution for them in Kyrgyz Republic, give them their lives back and therefore we seek the support of the public, politicians and the country’s leadership.
Selection of the winners and prizes:
A panel consisting of nine (9) members will evaluate the short films submitted by the deadline against the criteria and will select three best films. The winners will receive financial awards as indicated below:
First place: 60,000 Kyrgyz Soms
Second place: 40,000 Kyrgyz Soms
Third place: 20,000 Kyrgyz Soms
The panel will consist of:
- senior, protection and technical staff from the UNHCR office in Bishkek, UNHCR Regional Office in Almaty and UNHCR HQ in Geneva – 4 persons;
- designated official from the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Kyrgyz Republic – 1 person;
- representative of LC Adilet (NGO) - 1 person
- representative of CSIP (NGO) - 1 person
- representative of the State Services for Migration under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic – 1 person
- representative from the Ombudsman’s Office – 1 person.
Selection criteria:
- compliance with the Technical and Quality Specifications described below;
- factual and accurate representation of the real refugee stories and lives;
- emotional appeal and impact on the audience and the Panel;
- clarity of the key campaign messages as described in the Background above;
- Short films should serve the purpose of the advocacy efforts of the United Nations in Kyrgyz Republic to find the lasting solutions for the refugees.
- Submitted short films should not be published on any public domain prior to the Contest results (Award Ceremony) and without prior authorization from UNHCR.
Award Ceremony:
- Date and venue of the Award Ceremony will be announced additionally later.
Technical and quality specifications:
- Short film duration up to maximum 5 minutes.
- Language: Russian and Kyrgyz (if audio is in Russian then subtitles must be in Kyrgyz language and if audio is in Kyrgyz language then subtitles must be in Russian language).
- File format MP4 or MOV, compression codec H264
Video resolution Full HD (1920X1080)
Preferred video bitrate - not less than 35 000 kbps
Audio bitrate - not less than 320 kbps
Optical frequency – 25 fps
Deadline and submission:
All films must be submitted to the UNHCR National Office in Bishkek (UN House, 160 Chui Avenue, Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic) latest by 17:00 Friday, 22 June 2018 in closed envelopes (on USB drives) and by email at kgzbi@unhcr.org
Submissions must include:
- Short film;
- List of the production team;
- CVs, background/profile and websites of the company and/or of all production team members;
- Links, references and/or copies of the past work, productions and publications;
- List and contacts of the refugees featuring in the film.
Additional important information:
More details and information as well as contacts of the refugees who agreed to participate in this project will be provided at the Legal Clinic Adilet’s Offices (39 Umetaliev St, Bishkek) on 11 May 2018 between 14:00 and 17:00 hours.
All participants of the contest must obtain a written consent of from the refugees that they are willing to be interviewed and take part in the film. Also, sensitive personal of the refugees and their families must be treated with discretion and with confidentiality as requested by the refugees: if refugee and his/her family doesn’t want to disclose their names and/or face, the Contest participants and producers must respect their wish and produce films accordingly.
For more questions and information please contact Giorgi Sanikidze/UNHCR at kgzbi@unhcr.org and +996 775 58 00 26.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13281-best-short-film-2018-refugee-stories-kyrgyz-republic-deadline-extended




Date: 03 May 2018
Title: UNICEF statement on observing children’s right to privacy and confidentiality
Content: 03 May 2018
The dignity and rights of every child are to be respected in every circumstance. In interviewing and reporting on children, special attention is needed to ensure each child's right to privacy and confidentiality, the personal records of children in contact with the law shall be kept strictly confidential and access to them shall be limited only to duly authorized persons.
Media is expected not further stigmatize any child; avoid descriptions that expose a child to negative reprisals - including additional physical or psychological harm or discrimination. Media is advised to always change the name and obscure the visual identity of any child who is identified as inter alia, charged or convicted of a crime.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13273-unicef-statement-observing-children%E2%80%99s-right-privacy-and-confidentiality




Date: 26 April 2018
Title: Balanced action on drugs and crime can mitigate development and security challenges for Central Asian countries
Content: 26 April 2018
"The drug threat from Afghanistan is growing, as evidenced by poppy cultivation in Afghanistan jumped by 87 per cent to a record level of 9,000 metric tons in 2017. The area under poppy cultivation increased to 328,000 hectares, up 63 per cent compared with 201,000 hectares in 2016," he said.
The Vice-Prime Minister also added that within the framework of the UNODC Program for Central Asian states for 2015-2019, the Kyrgyz Republic is actively cooperating in such areas as combating transnational crime, illicit drug trafficking and terrorism; criminal justice, crime prevention and corruption; drug prevention, drug dependence prevention and treatment, drug reintegration and HIV prevention, supported through research and trend analysis. "These essential for the Kyrgyz Republic issues might predeterimine the efficency of the undertaken measures."
Ashita Mittal, Regional Representative for Central Asia at the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), highlighted the importance of concerted efforts to stop organized crime in Central Asia at the Third Steering Committee of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia 2015-2019 today in Bishkek.
Speaking at the high-level event, which gathered some 90 government representatives from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, Ms. Ashita Mittal, Regional Representative for Central Asia at the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), called for a balanced approach to drugs, crime and terrorism, which enables development, protects human rights and ensures access to treatment and support.
“42% of the over 70 million people living in the 5 Central Asian countries are under the age of 24”, she said. “UNODC’s support in the region is geared towards the education of young people so that they develop a stake and commit to making their communities economically vibrant, healthy and safe, ensuring that they are free from risks related to drugs, transnational organized crime and terrorism.”
The meeting began with a video message from UNODC Executive Director Yuri Fedotov, who noted that increased cultivation and production of opium in Afghanistan poses serious challenges globally and especially to the Central Asia region.
“I appreciate the efforts of Central Asian states to foster regional cooperation for addressing security and sustainable development to deal with possible risks of terrorism, drug trafficking and transnational organized crimes including the illicit financial flows. The 19 January Security Council meeting under the chairmanship of Kazakhstan, the Samarkand Conference on security and development organized by Uzbekistan in partnership with UNODC and UNRCCA and the recently concluded conference on Afghanistan in Tashkent all reflect political will of Central Asian states to maintain peace and security and promote inclusive socio-economic development processes as a shared responsibility in the region”, Mr. Fedotov stated.
The UNODC Executive Director noted: “Our work aims to support implementation of the operational recommendations contained in the outcome document of the 2016 UN General Assembly Special Session on the world drug problem and help countries achieve the nationalized Sustainable Development Goals and the Agenda 2030 so no one is left behind.”
Hosted by the Government of Kyrgyzstan, the Steering Committee reviewed the results of UNODC’s work in Central Asia in 2017. More than 4700 government officials, law enforcement officers, criminal justice practitioners, healthcare specialists, social workers and civil society representatives increased their knowledge and skills on international standards and good practices in drug control, crime and terrorism prevention, criminal justice and drug demand reduction.
UNODC bolstered law enforcement cooperation to counter illicit drugs trafficking and enhance border security through the establishment of border liaison offices, outposts and port control units and the functioning of an information and coordination platform at the Central Asian Regional Information and Coordination Centre for Combating Illicit Trafficking of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors (CARICC).
UNODC promoted implementation of community policing and crime prevention initiatives, including by raising awareness of sports as a vehicle for youth crime prevention. Work with women and youth helped increase resilience to violent extremism. UNODC supported efforts to counter human trafficking, improve forensic services, promote social rehabilitation of prisoners and develop legislation aimed at ensuring judicial independence and effective, fair and humane criminal justice systems.
UNODC assisted the Central Asian states in improving policies on drug dependence treatment, social reintegration of people who use drugs, and HIV prevention. Drug prevention programmes reached nearly 70 schools and over 1400 families.
The Programme for Central Asia is UNODC’s framework for cooperation in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. In 2017, UNODC delivered over 14 million USD in technical assistance in the region within the framework of this Programme.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13274-balanced-action-drugs-and-crime-can-mitigate-development-and-security-challenges-central




Date: 20 April 2018
Title: Kyrgyz Government and WFP Team Up to Improve Food Security and Nutrition
Content: 20 April 2018
Under the MoU, WFP’s Country Strategic Plan (CSP) will be jointly implemented with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. It prioritizes school meals, food security and nutrition, as well as the improvement of rural livelihoods and food productivity in the face of climate change.
The CSP is based on recommendations outlined in the national poverty and food security reviews conducted by the Kyrgyz Government last year. It is aligned with national development objectives for economic growth and social development, as well as with two of the 17 global Sustainable Development Goals: SDG2 – Zero Hunger, which aims to eradicate hunger by 2030 - and SDG17, which promotes both public and private partnerships.
“We thank WFP for its assistance and look forward to intensifying our joint efforts towards achieving our country’s priorities – the elimination of poverty, of inequality and of all forms of malnutrition while at the same time expanding school meals and other social protection programmes,” said Vice Prime Minister Altynai Omurbekova at the signing ceremony.
This five-year strategy aims to improve access to nutritious food for all primary schoolchildren in Kyrgyzstan and to support over 100,000 poor families – particularly women – in selected underdeveloped communities with a view to improving people’s livelihoods and their ability to cope with natural disasters and climate change.
The CSP focuses on supporting national institutions and local authorities to strengthen their capacity for comprehensive food security and nutrition management.
“WFP and the Kyrgyz Government are working together to help ensure that all people of the Kyrgyz Republic become food secure and lead healthy, productive lives,” said WFP Representative and Country Director in the Kyrgyz Republic, Andrea Bagnoli. “We will continue working with people from across the country – from those living in remote valleys right up to government ministers – to ensure that the voices and needs of vulnerable people are better heard and listened to by decision makers.”
The CSP has been developed through a participatory process in close collaboration with the government, development partners, national institutions and communities.
Activities outlined in the CSP require funds totaling some US$60 million to rehabilitate and equip rural schools, and create key agricultural and disaster mitigation assets. Emphasis is placed on supporting irrigation infrastructure, vegetable production and food processing, prevention of floods and mudslides, and income generation through skills training.
WFP has been present in the Kyrgyz Republic since 2008, supporting the government in strengthening national social protection systems, boosting community resilience to shocks and stresses, and improving the provision of school meals in the country.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13271-kyrgyz-government-and-wfp-team-improve-food-security-and-nutrition




Date: 20 April 2018
Title: UNICEF: "Strengthening Maternal and Child Health Care Systems" has been presented today at the state administration of Osh oblast
Content: 20 April 2018
Opening the presentation, UNICEF Representative in Kyrgyzstan Yukie Mokuo, said that the new project aims to expand access to quality medical services among the most vulnerable families, children and women, including those in Osh, Batken and Jalal-Abad oblasts. By the end of March 2021, about 500 doctors, nurses and managers from 23 health organizations will receive practical knowledge on modern methods of treatment and care for newborns and children, and support the development of new digital technologies. Water supply, heating and sanitation systems will be repaired in 10 hospitals. Moreover, it is planned to educate parents at the community level in order to improve their child caring practices.
“Thanks to the support of the Government of Japan, the UNICEF and the Ministry of Health can make efforts to systematically and sustainably improve the quality of medical care for children that will include procurement of live-saving medical equipment for 23 hospitals in the south to provide emergency care, treatment and care for severely ill newborns and children,” said Yukie Mokuo, UNICEF Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
“I believe that it will contribute to creating a clear path towards universal health coverage and a society where no mother and child left behind”, she added.
In March 2018, the Government of Japan allocated US $ 3.5 million to the Ministry of Health and UNICEF for a project to strengthen the health system for maternal and child care that covers more than 924,000 children under 5 and over 150,000 pregnant women in Kyrgyzstan during next three years.
The new grant was made possible through successful results of a previous program by the Ministry of Health, which contributed at the national level to reduction of early neonatal mortality from 14.3 in 2014 to 11.2 in 2016 per 1,000 live births and perinatal deaths from 23.7 to 20.1 per 1,000 live births.
About UNICEF
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child, in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.
For more information about UNICEF and its work for children in Kyrgyzstan, visit www.unicef.org/kyrgyzstan.
Follow UNICEF on  Facebook, Instagram и Twitter
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13272-unicef-strengthening-maternal-and-child-health-care-systems-has-been-presented-today-state




Date: 19 April 2018
Title: UNICEF: How to build your own business in the village - children of Suzak district present their ideas
Content: 19 April 2018
The iTalk is a platform in the format of public speaking for young people to discuss the importance of involvement of young people in decision-making processes at the local and regional levels, as well as issues of youth participation in localization of the Sustainable Development Goals. The event has been facilitated by Ermekbai Omoshev, akim of Suzak district, and Yukie Mokuo, UNICEF Representative in Kyrgyzstan.
Speakers of the event were members of the school parliaments from high schools of Suzak district, teachers and representatives of local self-government bodies. Each speaker was given 6 minutes to present his/her topic and 3 minutes to answer questions from the audience. Themes of speeches were: the role of youth in conflict resolution; how the state can involve youth in decision-making processes; safety on the roads and schoolchildren; school - as a bridge between the youth and the village; how to prevent conflicts in schools; how a young person can build a business in the village?
“This event was important for students of Suzak district, as it helped them to realize their greater role in the society. I am very pleased with the knowledge they acquired through the project. They learned how to identify the needs of their community and held public hearings in their districts engaging representatives of ayil okmots. I consider this to be a good progress and indicator of their active position and dedication to problems in our community. It is also important that we, ayil okmots, go to the meeting and listen to the young, giving them the opportunity to be involved, "- shared his opinion Ermekbai Omoshev, akim of the Suzak region.
"A peculiarity of this iTalk was that the speakers were schoolchildren demonstrating themselves as leaders and civil activists. They were able to set an example of how young people can bring changes and make positive influence on community development. We are happy that active young people emerge in the regions and care about development in both their community and country as a whole, "said the project coordinator Beksultan Rustamov.
The iTalk has been organized by the International Educational Association of Debates in Central Asia (IDEA CA) within the project “Kyrgyzstan - friendly to children and youth” in cooperation with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) with the support of the UK Government.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13270-unicef-how-build-your-own-business-village-children-suzak-district-present-their-ideas




Date: 17 April 2018
Title: Kyrgyzstan launches improved data collection system to monitor gender-based violence and human trafficking
Content: 17 April 2018
“The meaningful contribution of the National Statistics Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic to the process of data collection and analysis on gender-based violence and human trafficking allows identifying current tendencies and developing state policies and strategies in the area”, said Lyuksina Tekeeva, Deputy Chairperson of the National Statistics Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic.
“Statistical forms for data collection in key institutions, such as the National Statistics Committee, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Supreme Court and crisis centers have been reviewed and updated. This will allow us to keep track of the situation, analyze trends and develop targeted measures to prevent and respond to these serious crimes”, noted Roza Bekmatova, Head of Gender Policy at the Ministry of Labor and Social Development.
In 2017, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic set up an interdepartmental working group to assess the effectiveness of existing methodologies for data collection on gender-based violence and human trafficking and make recommendations for improvements based on the newly adopted Law on the Prevention of and Protection against Family Violence and the Law on the Prevention of and Fight against Trafficking in Persons.
“The new reporting formats contain several important innovations. For example, State bodies will start collecting data on the type of abuse suffered. This can range from physical and psychological violence to abuse of an economic nature when the victim’s access to and use of financial resources, property, or other assets is restricted”, stated Vera Tkachenko, UNODC International Manager. “The new system will also provide authorities with better insights into the prevalent forms of exploitation suffered by victims of human trafficking”, she added.
Concerned State bodies have already adopted internal instructions to start collecting data based on the new reporting formats. Training of government officials and other stakeholders on the new methodology for data collection is foreseen. The first statistical report on the prevalence of gender-based violence and human trafficking and the criminal justice response to these crimes is due in 2019.
“The Government of the United States applauds the efforts by Kyrgyzstan’s authorities to improve the availability and quality of data on gender-based violence and human trafficking”, stated Sandeep Paul, Director of the International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Section at the U.S. Embassy in Kyrgyzstan, who spoke at the event. "Reliable statistics on these and other crimes are critical for measuring changes in crime levels and to monitor state responses to crime. In this manner, countries like Kyrgyzstan can also track progress towards the targets of the Sustainable Development Goals”, he stressed.
UNODC, with funding provided by the U.S. Government, supports Kyrgyzstan’s national institutions in the production of crime and criminal justice statistics within the framework of the 2015-2019 UNODC Programme for Central Asia.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13269-kyrgyzstan-launches-improved-data-collection-system-monitor-gender-based-violence-and-human




Date: 17 April 2018
Title: UNODC enhances inter-agency cooperation between Counter Narcotics Agencies of Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan
Content: 17 April 2018
Kyrgyz CNS-hosted event gathered some 20 delegates from both countries. The meeting is the follow up event of the agreement achieved during the first inter-agency coordination working group meeting between Interior Ministries of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Republic of Uzbekistan as a part of the signed protocol on cooperation for 2018-2019 years, that took place earlier on 02 March 2018 this year in Tashkent city.
During the event the delegations of the Kyrgyz CNS and the Uzbek CND have discussed priority areas of cooperation between agencies, trends and developments on the drug situation in the region, the effectiveness of national efforts on drug control as well as drug prevention issues.
In addition, the Heads of regional operational units of the Kyrgyz CNS and the Uzbek CND had an opportunity to discuss specific topics including cross-border cooperation on countering illicit drug trafficking along Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan border in a separate meeting.
“As you know, Afghan drug trafficking on the so-called "northern route" passes through the territories of our countries and further to the world’s markets. In this context, interagency cooperation on countering illicit drug trafficking is extremely important. We support initiatives to consolidate efforts aimed at addressing new challenges and threats to security and stability in the region", said Mr.Ilias Bakirov, Head of the Counter Narcotics Service (CNS) of the Interior Ministry of the Kyrgyz Republic.
During the meeting, Mr. Ilias Bakirov proposed implementation of "Ferghana Initiative", which envisages a platform of anti-drug cooperation between countries that have access to the Fergana Valley.
"Taking into account the fact that drug trafficking routes mainly passing through the Fergana Valley, drug control agencies need to exchange information promptly and intensively, and to have agreed inter-agency cooperation plans," he noted.
According to Mr. Shezod Nabiev, Head of the Counter Narcotics Directorate (CND) under Criminal Investigation Department of the Interior Ministry of the Republic of Uzbekistan: “We are fighting against the same problems the growing narco-expansion, the rapid spread of new psychoactive substances and the involvement of young people in drug trafficking. I hope we will establish an effective interagency cooperation at the level our regional units along the bordering provinces. The Uzbekistan remains ready for fruitful cooperation and dialogue”.
“UNODC will continue facilitating the cooperation dialogue between the states in the region including its support to the Governments on strengthening legal framework on drug control issues”, said Mr. Yusuf Kurbonov, the INTL Programme Coordinator of the UNODC Programme office in the Kyrgyz Republic. "According to the latest opium survey, the opium harvest in Afghanistan in 2017 reached up to 9,000 tons, which is an absolute record the past decade, so this meeting of the competent counter narcotics authorities of Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan at the “Osh knot” of the “Northern Route” of opiate’s trafficking is extremely urgent”, he added.
Important to note that with support from UNODC in November 2017, the Ministry of Interior (MoI) of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Drug Control Agency (DCA) under the President of the Republic of Tajikistan conducted a two-day working meeting aimed at strengthening interagency cooperation in the field of countering transnational organized crime and illicit drug trafficking. The parties signed the bilateral cooperation protocol on combating illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and their precursors.
The meeting was supported by the UNODC Programme Office of in the Kyrgyz Republic as a part of the Sub-programme-1 of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia 2015-2019 under initiatives aimed at "Countering transnational organised crime, illicit drug trafficking and preventing terrorism" with funding provided by the government of the Russian Federation.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13268-unodc-enhances-inter-agency-cooperation-between-counter-narcotics-agencies-uzbekistan-and




Date: 12 April 2018
Title: WHO and UNICEF issue new guidance to promote breastfeeding in health facilities
Content: 12 April 2018
The Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding encourages new mothers to breastfeed and informs health workers how best to support breastfeeding. Breastfeeding within the first hour of birth protects newborn babies from infections. Its benefits help keep babies healthy in their first days and last will into adulthood Infants are at greater risk of death due to diarrhoea and other infections when they are only partially breastfed or not breastfed at all. Breastfeeding also improves IQ, school readiness and attendance, and is associated with higher income in adult life. It also reduces the risk of breast cancer in the mother.
"Breastfeeding saves lives. Still in Kyrgyzstan, only 41 per cent of children less than six months of age are exclusively breastfed," says UNICEF Representative in Kyrgyzstan Yukie Mokuo. "Breastfeeding requires support, encouragement and guidance. With these basic 10 steps, we can significantly improve breastfeeding rates around the world and in Kyrgyzstan."
Dr Jarno Habicht, WHO Representative / Head of Country Office in Kyrgyzstan, says: "Breastfeeding gives babies the best possible start in life and like other countries’ effort, Kyrgyzstan also drives to achieve universal health coverage and there is no better or more crucial place to start than by ensuring the Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding are the standard for care of mothers and their babies".
The Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding:
1. Comply fully with the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes and relevant World Health Assembly resolutions and establish ongoing monitoring and data-management.
2. Ensure that staff have sufficient knowledge, competence and skills to support breastfeeding.
3. Discuss the importance and management of breastfeeding with pregnant women and their families.
4. Facilitate immediate and uninterrupted skin-to-skin contact and support mothers to initiate breastfeeding as soon as possible after birth.
5. Support mothers to initiate and maintain breastfeeding and manage common difficulties.
6. Do not provide breastfed newborns any food or fluids other than breast milk, unless medically indicated.
7. Enable mothers with infants to remain together and to practice rooming-in 24 hours a day.
8. Support mothers to recognize and respond to their infants’ cues for feeding.
9. Counsel mothers on the use and risks of feeding bottles, teats and pacifiers.
10. Coordinate discharge so that parents and their infants have timely access to support and care.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13217-who-and-unicef-issue-new-guidance-promote-breastfeeding-health-facilities




Date: 10 April 2018
Title: Changing Behavior to End Violence against Women and Girls in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 10 April 2018
The Inception Workshop of the new project “Across Generations and Gender Borders – Communities Combatting Gender-Based Violence in Kyrgyzstan”of today brings together EU and UN representatives, Kyrgyz government officials, parliament members and civil society representatives to discuss the way forward for eliminating violence against women and girls.
“Violence against women and girls is one of the greatest injustices of our time, which crosses all borders, generations, nationalities and communities. It deeply touches our hearts and our minds. And it is a serious barrier to any society's full development potential. To make a real change, the EU is pleased to partner with UN Women to join efforts towards ending violence against women and girls in Kyrgyzstan,” said Charlotte Adriaen, Head of Cooperation Section of the European Union Delegation to the Kyrgyz Republic.
UN Women Acting Representative in Kyrgyzstan Jyldyz Kuvatova noted: “This project will directly support the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the Sustainable Agenda 2030, as they all call for violence against women and girls to be urgently addressed in order to achieve gender equality. As UN Women, we will do our best to achieve concrete results in collaboration with all other actors and stakeholders.”
Funded by the EU, with a budget of over EUR 800,000, the project will be implemented by UN Women in a partnership with NGOs HelpAge International and Agents of Change. The project will run for three years, starting from 2018, and focus on four provinces in Kyrgyzstan: Issyk-Kul, Talas, Batken and Osh.
For more detailed information, please contact Meriza Emilbekova, UN Women Communications Specialist in the Kyrgyz Republic: tel.: 0770 07 85 25; e-mail: meriza.emilbekova@unwomen.org
Background information:
Project title: Across Generations and Gender Borders – Communities Combatting Gender-Based Violence in Kyrgyzstan
Project timeframe: 30 months (1 January 2018 – 30 June 2020)
Project Donor: European Union
Implementing agency: United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women)
Implementing partners: HelpAge International, Agents of Change
The project specifically focuses on non-consensual marriage practices by tackling the root causes of violence against women and girls (VAWG). Such root causes include deeply rooted patriarchal attitudes, pervasive gender stereotypes and harmful social norms. To bring about behavior change across generations and gender borders, the project will help target communities in 16 pilot municipalities act together to eliminate non-consensual marriage practices and associated violence against women and girls of all ages.
The project will reach up to 16,000 individuals among youth, older people, duty bearers, courts of Aksakals, local government and religious leaders, who will directly benefit from the provision of trainings, increasing their knowledge to achieve mutual respect and gender justice at family and community levels, as well as through enhancing their legal expertise to process cases involving gender-based violence. In addition, around 200,000 women and girls, men and boys will be encouraged to reconsider their attitudes towards non-consensual marriage practices through wide community-based outreach activities.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13213-changing-behavior-end-violence-against-women-and-girls-kyrgyzstan




Date: 09 April 2018
Title: Development Dialogue Addresses Health Emergency Preparedness in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 09 April 2018
The event provided a forum to discuss collaboration on health emergency preparedness, reviewing ongoing joint initiatives, and discussing future priorities to enhance readiness to advance implementation of the WHO International Health Regulations (IHR) in the country. The Dialogue highlighted the critical importance of flexible preparedness planning, strengthening engagement partners, information sharing, strengthening of intersectoral collaboration at the national level, and the critical role that governments and line ministries play in capacities to detect, assess, and report public health events.
“Health emergencies are often happening suddenly and unexpectedly. That is why we need to ensure that our health systems are capable of delivering timely, quality health services to those in need, in a comprehensive way and on an adequate scale,” said Karatayev Madamin, Deputy Minister of Health of the Kyrgyz Republic. “These systems are especially important during emergencies, when access to quality essential health services can be severely compromised”.
“The University of Central Asia is delighted to be partnering with the United Nations in providing a platform for supporting evidence-based policy making in areas of importance to Kyrgyzstan,” said Prof. Dr. S. Sohail H. Naqvi, Rector of UCA. “Such platforms also provide opportunities for researchers in the field to share their latest results, to enable stakeholders to formulate appropriate policies.”
“All disasters and emergencies have one thing in common. They disrupt communities and threaten people’s health and food security. The impact of emergencies can be greatly reduced by investing in preparedness. That is why we need to work together to strengthen Country’s capacities to prevent, prepare for, respond to, and recover from all types of health emergencies and strengthen food security. Strengthening country’s health emergency preparedness is the responsibility of all and is a path to attain sustainable development,” stated Ozonnia Ojielo, United Nations Resident Coordinator in the Kyrgyz Republic.
During the Dialogue participants touched upon emergency preparedness and building the capacity of the health sector, mass casualty management, as well as on how emergency preparedness can benefit the population and Government from various consequences.
Stakeholders agreed that to achieve sustainable health systems, the core capacities under the International Health Regulations would need to be further strengthened, with a focus on prevention, and on achieving results in close cooperation with the Government and line ministries.
Background:
The UN-UCA Development Dialogues series comprises six dialogues, organised over the course of one year, to initiate consultation among government, development partners, civil society, private sector and academia on critical sustainable development subjects. The goal of the Dialogues is to help break down traditional sector silos and enhance horizontal and vertical policy coherence, integration, and partnerships to inform policy formulation in Kyrgyzstan. Each dialogue is designed to include presentations of thematic issues by key stakeholders, a Q&A session, and an open substantive discussion that will be translated into a thematic policy brief.
For more information please contact:
●       Nurshat Ababakirov, Communications Officer, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office at nurshat.ababakirov@one.un.org and/or 0770 979 703
●       Nasir Pirani, Director, Advancement and Public Affairs, University of Central Asia
PublicAffairs@ucentralasia.org, 0312 910 822

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/14112-development-dialogue-addresses-health-emergency-preparedness-kyrgyzstan




Date: 06 April 2018
Title: UNDP: Green Technologies Embracing Our Villages
Content: 06 April 2018
Buazhar Kochkonbaeva, Secondary school principal of Shoro-Bashat village in Uzgen district, Osh oblast explains how energy efficiency can change people's lives and help them grow professionally.
‘We wanted to have hot water in our school, but everything turned out to be much more interesting than we expected. With the installation of a new equipment which provides our school with hot water from the solar energy we learned useful information about the green technologies’, says Buazhar with enthusiasm.
In 2016 within the framework of the UNDP programme "Integrated Development of Osh oblast" funded by the Russian Federation and introduction of the "Green Village" initiative in Tort-Kol ayil aimak experts in the field of RES selected four project proposals for integration of energy-efficient technologies at the sites of social infrastructure, including a project proposal for the installation of a solar water heating system for the public school named after T. Asranov, which allows to supply school with hot water. This project was selected on a competitive basis and co-financed by LSG.
‘We were always encouraged to save water and electricity; however, I did not pay much attention to the concepts of "energy saving" or "energy efficiency". It seemed to me that these concepts are not feasible in the rural environment’, says the School principal. ‘To be honest I wasn’t an economizer. We get used to ignoring important things around us. Now we have installed a valve to the school pump where we had water running constantly. We train kids not to waste water while cleaning teeth etc. Next steps for integration of green economy principles will be the installation of LED lighting in our classrooms, which is a number one priority’, shares with her plans Buazhar.
At the same time, we conducted seminars about the importance of RES and its further promotion. ‘Our staff now lives a different life. And I'm sure that they think differently. We conducted special sessions on RES in all classes. Moreover, our teachers who were trained integrate RES aspects of energy saving in their curricular explaining kids about complex aspects of energy saving and foster environment friendliness and think and find alternative sources of energy’.
Staff and students of the school were trained how to use RES in the village and operate the new installation. ‘Initially I thought that the main goal of the project was the installation of the water heating solar system itself. Then I realized that education plays a key role in the promotion of green technologies. Implementing the principles of the "green village" initiative on the ground is as important as changing the attitude of people: teachers, pupils, parents and local authorities’, says Buazhar.
Today the whole village of Shoro-Bashat, not only the school is embraced with ideas of a "green" way of life. Last year local authorities implemented several projects to integrate renewable energy sources in other social infrastructure sites, including the installation of a solar water heating system and LED lighting in “Aruu-Sezim” kindergarten and installation of street lightning with LED lamps and light sensors. In addition, in the nearest future in the village of Shoro-Bashat small businesses will start operating with the implementation of renewable energy sources: biogas equipment, solar greenhouses, and a solar dryer.
Integration of the Green Village initiative in the pilot villages of Osh oblast is carried out within the framework of the UNDP program "Integrated Development of Osh Oblast" funded by the Russian Federation. We hope that the successful experience of the Programme will inspire to continue introducing renewable energy sources in other villages throughout the country.
Key Facts
Five villages from three municipalities of Osh oblast have been selected for the practical implementation of the "green village" initiative: International village in Nookat district; Shoro-Bashat village and Makarenko village in Uzgen district; Kayin-Talaa village in Kara-Kulzha district
Six business sites and eight social infrastructure facilities have been selected for practical implementation of RES in the villages with UNDP contribution of 160,000 USD. These projects include LED street lightning, a hydraulic ram to provide the population with water, a solar water heating system in schools and local walk-in clinics, solar greenhouses, solar dryers for vegetables and fruits, biogas installation, etc.
The solar water heating system installed in the public school after T. Asranov is an active solar vacuum water-heating split-system of high pressure, which allows getting hot water during throughout a year, regardless of the weather conditions. Setting a nominal volume of 300 liters will allow receiving up to 600 liters of hot water per day heated up to 65 °C. The system is completely environment-friendly. In addition, this project contributed to improving the sanitary and hygienic conditions in the public school, reducing incidents of infectious diseases among students, and reduced expenses of the local self-government for electricity.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13208-undp-green-technologies-embracing-our-villages




Date: 22 March 2018
Title: UNDP: Prospects of the Rural Tourism Development in Osh Oblast
Content: 22 March 2018
This year, the celebration of this spring holiday in Osh oblast had an additional prospective – promotion of internal and external tourism in the southern region of the Kyrgyz Republic. Thus, the tourism Festivals took place in Uzgen city of Uzgen district on March 20 and in Sakhaba Park in Katta-Tal village of Nookat district on March 21, 2018. The festivals were aimed at the demonstration of new tourism routes and services, raising social awareness and interest to travel inside the country, development of business and cultural relations within the country’s tourism industry.
These events became a part of measures that are being implemented for the active positioning of the Osh region in the international tourism market, the development of attractive and competitive tourist products with a wide range of services and, the most important, the involvement of the rural population.
Over 1,000 people have attended tourism festivals including the local population, local authorities, tourists from Kyrgyzstan and other countries. The programme of the event included master classes on cooking meals of national cuisine, making souvenirs, excursions to historical and natural attractions, fairs, national games as well as a concert program of different ethnic groups living in the region. The main participants of the event were representatives of the leading travel agencies operating in the Kyrgyz Republic. After demonstrations of the tourism-oriented sites and the cultural flavor of the area, they shared their impressions and recommendations for the LSGs on improving the tourism potential in each community, exchanged their contacts and agreed on further cooperation.
According to the results of the social and economic situation assessment in the region, over 5 million KGS grant programme was launched in three municipalities with tourism potential. They are Kayin-Talaa village (Kara-Kulzha district), Zhany-Nookat village (Nookat district), and Uzgen city (Uzgen district). Thus, 13 small business projects were supported including 5 souvenir production sites, 2 guest houses, 3 toilets, 1 yurt town, 1 felt business and 1 ethnic cafe. The listed business plans will be implemented during 2017-2018 and are aimed at solving infrastructure problems related to electricity, water supply, poor hygiene in public places, etc. New jobs were created for 46 villagers including 31 for women.
"Since the beginning of the project, on 33 training events with the participation of 279 people, there were a number of business projects developed aimed at expanding tourism potential in the region by improving services for tourists, creating and offering new tourist routes that connect the ancient city of Uzgen and Osh with other villages rich in natural and cultural diversity. Entrepreneurs were trained to promote the national tourism product, and local authorities were offered measures to eliminate administrative barriers for businesses linked to tourism. " – says tourism development expert Azamat Akeleyev.
The complex of measures on the economic empowerment of the rural population to improve the tourist attractiveness of Osh oblast are being held in the framework of "Integrated development of Osh oblast", funded by the Russian Federation, and is implemented with an expert support of the consulting company "Promotank".
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13203-undp-prospects-rural-tourism-development-osh-oblast




Date: 16 March 2018
Title: Playing a soccer: philosopher’s stone of friendship
Content: 16 March 2018
With the support of UNDP project “Cross-border cooperation for sustainable peace and development”, funded by funded by UN Peacebuilding Fund and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, sport is becoming a means of creating new initiatives to team up the youth residing in the border of the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan.
Last year, there was held an official opening of the soccer field in Chon-Tala village of Batken oblast. The place of construction of the new sports ground was chosen purposefully. Chon-Tala village is in the border area between the Kyrgyz Republic and Lakkon village of the Republic of Tajikistan. The local self-government, respected seniors and youth initiative groups attended the event. Deputy Akim of Batken rayon self-government Taalaybek Ibraimov and the head of Tort-Kul Ayil Okmot Israjdin Eraliev expressed their confidence that eminent athletes will grow among the younger generation of these border villages of both countries, who will glorify the neighboring countries in future.
It should be noted, that the idea of building a mini-soccer field appeared in 2015, but due to lack of funds in local self-government, they couldn’t make it. Today the sports facility is installed on the territory of a 1500 sq.m. The constructed mini-soccer field is located right text to sports ground with an area of 1144 sq. m., equipped with special sports outfits for exercising and physical training. The total cost of the project is 46,116 USD. As it was mentioned by the young deputy member of Chon-Tala village and the representative of the local youth Anvar Oytemirov, this project became possible thanks to the initiative and active participation of the young people who live in the two neighboring villages, support of the LSG and the UNDP project.
“We took part in the construction of this soccer field and were very much looking forward to its opening. We often gathered together with residents of Lakkon village to play football, but we did not have a field and played just on a stony wasteland, where it was difficult to avoid injuries. Now we have a real soccer field, which, I'm sure, will gather us even more often,” says Anvar.
“The youth of this border neighborhood are quite active and often initiates joint activities with residents from Lakkon village of Tajikistan. We only create environments so that such uniting initiatives would take place even more,” said UNDP specialist Sarvar Turdiboyev.
The big event ended with a friendly match between Chon-Talaa village and Lakkon village who were invited to the opening of the soccer field.
“I live in a neighboring village, which is only 300 meters away from a new soccer field, but this is already the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan. This sports ground is the closest one to us, even from those that we have in Tajikistan. It has always been easier for us to get together to play with our Kyrgyz friends for leisure, when we are done with our fieldwork, now we will meet more often. I would like to see that in the future we created one strong common soccer team,”- joyfully shares the resident of Lakkon village Shodiev Abduvokhid.
We want to believe that this sports ground will contribute to the creation of that strong united team of bordering youth, connected by sport, common views and goals for achieving peace and sustainable development in the region.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13198-playing-soccer-philosopher%E2%80%99s-stone-friendship




Date: 14 March 2018
Title: Prime Minister: “Social partnerships the way forward to prevent crime in the Kyrgyz Republic”
Content: 14 March 2018
"By identifying and eliminating the causes of crime we can create a safe living environment for all. We can make this happen if government, civil society and engaged citizens work together”, Isakov stated.
The Prime Minister stressed that crime prevention is a core priority for the police. “Progress in this area requires mutual understanding and the active involvement of the community in which the police are embedded”, he noted.
According to Koen Marquering, International Coordinator at the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the biennial forum promotes dialogue between the Government and civil society on pertinent crime and safety issues, such as road safety, juvenile delinquency and the prevention of violent extremism. As noted by Marquering, the forum provided an opportunity to showcase successful crime prevention initiatives and discuss how social partnerships to promote public safety can be institutionalized.
During the past two years UNODC supported training and exchange of experiences on crime prevention for over 280 local government officials, police and other stakeholders in the country. This led to the development of a training manual, which will be incorporated in the curriculum of the Academy of Management under the President of the Kyrgyz Republic.
A grants programme supported the implementation of local crime prevention plans in communities around the country. Local authorities provided over 22,000 USD in co-funding for a wide range of crime prevention initiatives implemented jointly with civil society. For the first time local authorities adopted a crime prevention plan for one of the districts in the capital Bishkek. 6 police stations were built or refurbished with local authorities investing over 62,000 USD and the Ministry of Interior assigning officers to work at these community-level police stations.
These and other initiatives were discussed at the forum with participants recommending legislative amendments and mainstreaming of crime prevention in relevant policies, such as the 2017-2020 Youth Policy. Suggested measures to reduce the death toll on Kyrgyz roads ranged from infrastructural improvements to tighter regulation of private companies offering public transportation services and awareness raising campaigns on safety enhancing measures citizens themselves can take, such as the need to wear reflective clothing during night time. Participants also stressed the importance of social reintegration of offenders, including the development of a program for the rehabilitation of violent extremist offenders.
In response, Prime Minister Isakov committed to establishing a working group to work on the legal framework governing crime prevention. The Prime-Minister also emphasized the need to transform the police from a militarized structure into a service-oriented institution that works closely with the population.
Following its launch in 2016, the crime prevention forum was convened for the second time based on a joint initiative by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Saferworld, the Civic Union "For Reform and Results" and the Foundation for Tolerance International with financial support provided by the US State Department’s Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL).
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12933-prime-minister-%E2%80%9Csocial-partnerships-way-forward-prevent-crime-kyrgyz-republic%E2%80%9D




Date: 12 March 2018
Title: WFP Expands School Meals Programme In Kyrgyzstan
Content: 12 March 2018
The expansion of the programme was announced at a ceremony in the Novopokrovka School.
“Thanks to the support from our long-standing partners the Russian Federation and WFP, we can improve school meals in Kyrgyzstan, ensuring their benefits go beyond the classroom,” said the Minister of Education of the Kyrgyz Republic, Gulmira Kudaiberdieva.
In 2013, with initial funds of US$12 million from Russia, WFP launched a model school meals programme in partnership with the Ministry of Education. The aim was to boost the country’s national school feeding programme that benefits around 400,000 primary school children.
Since then, this initiative has been widely recognized for its efficiency and sustainability, and received critical support from national and local authorities, communities as well as spurred interest from other donors such as Japan and private sector companies.
Currently, the programme provides nutritious hot meals to 114,000 primary school students in 335 schools around the country. Thanks to this new contribution from Russia, the programme will be expanded to reach an additional 175,000 students in over 500 new schools in the country’s poorest rural areas.
“We aim to ensure that all primary school-aged children in the Kyrgyz Republic have access to safe and nutritious food all year round,” said WFP Kyrgyz Republic Country Director Andrea Bagnoli. “School meals improve the learning environment for young children so they can achieve better results, paving the way for increased economic productivity in the future.”
With new funding, WFP will continue investing in renovating canteens, providing schools with kitchen equipment, training school chefs and helping schools establish vegetable gardens to grow their own fresh fruits and vegetables.
The Ministry of Education and WFP have pledged their commitment to continuing improving national school meals policy – this will include revising procurement regulations so that more produce can be purchased from smallholder farmers.
“The Russian Federation is proud to be making a real difference, paving the way for a stronger education and food system in the country,” said the Ambassador of the Russian Federation to the Kyrgyz Republic, Andrey Krutko. “We’re committed to broadening our support to WFP and the Kyrgyz Republic to enable the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, so there is better education and food security for everyone.”
Since the start of WFP operations in the Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation has contributed over US$60 million in support of WFP’s activities, making it the single largest donor to WFP in the Kyrgyz Republic.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12880-wfp-expands-school-meals-programme-kyrgyzstan




Date: 09 March 2018
Title: Football against Violence, Crime and Drug Use in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 09 March 2018
"Together with UNODC, we pay great attention to the prevention of juvenile delinquency. Unfortunately, this problem exists, and only together we can change the situation for better", stated Ms. Aigul Ryskulova, the Vice-Mayor of Bishkek and founder of the women's football league in Kyrgyzstan. She noted that based on an initiative by the Asian Football Federation, 8 March is also celebrated as Women's Football Day.
"Our work at the Football Federation of the Kyrgyz Republic is not just about developing football as a sport. Our goal is to promote social responsibility and educate future generation of our country. Sport is a universal language, which unites people. I call on everybody to join our common sports family and promote the development of our country", said Nurdin Bukuev, FFKR’s Deputy Secretary General.
"Making the world safer from drugs, crime and violence is UNODC’s core task. Girls and women play an integral role in this endeavour. Football makes you stronger, gives you determination, courage and makes this world better and more secure", said Vera Tkachenko, UNODC Acting Head of Office in the Kyrgyz Republic.
During the event, the participants also engaged in life skills training sessions delivered as part of UNODC's evidence-informed and sports-based curriculum Line Up Live Up. They also attended a performance about the negative consequences of crime and violence in one of the Bishkek theatres, which was followed by discussion among the attending youth on how to tackle these issues in everyday life.
UNODC works to reduce the level of antisocial behaviour by building important life skills that increase adaptive and positive behaviour among young people. Since April 2017, over 40 sports coaches and physical education teachers have successfully passed training of trainers’ courses and conducted “Line Up, Live Up” sessions to some 250 children aged 13-16 in secondary schools and sports centres in Bishkek and the surrounding Chui province. These activities are conducted within the framework of UNODC’s Global Doha Declaration Implementation Programme.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12878-football-against-violence-crime-and-drug-use-kyrgyzstan




Date: 06 March 2018
Title: Why is a 30% gender quota in local councils important?
Content: 06 March 2018
The forum was organized by the NGO "Women Support Center" with the support of the OSCE Program Office in Bishkek, UN Women and UNDP.
The purpose of the forum was to promote political rights of women in Kyrgyzstan, in particular, to promote the draft law on the reservation of mandates for women in local councils of the Kyrgyz Republic (Law of the Kyrgyz Republic “On the election of deputies of local councils”, registration number 6-19987 / 18).
Every year, as part of the International Women's Day celebration, women's movement in Kyrgyzstan consolidates its efforts to draw public’s and decision-makers’ attention to the history of women’s struggle for political rights.
Currently, the urgent issue is to create mandated quotas for women in local councils. The draft law proposes to use the reservation of a 30% quota for women in local councils of the Kyrgyz Republic (articles 59-1, 62) as a special measure, which will ensure a representation of women in the deputy body of local councils at least 30%.
Why is it important?
In 2012, Kyrgyzstan switched to the two-level budget, according to it, deputies of local councils manage expenditures of the rural budget. After all, the representation of women in decision-making processes directly related to the solution of social issues, the interests of children, women, and vulnerable groups. This topic is particularly relevant in the year of regional development and digitalization.
Over the past 15 years, there has been a downward trend in numbers of women deputies of local councils. In 2004 there were elected - 19%, in 2008 - 17%, in 2012 - 12%, in 2016-10%.  At the same time, today in 86 local councils, meaning in every fifth local council, there was not elected a single woman.  With the current downward trend in numbers of women deputies of local councils, in 2028 there will be no women deputies in local councils, and taking into account the growing influence of gender stereotypes in rural areas, in 2020 women in local councils will be less than 2%.
Today, women deputies of local councils from all regions of the country, in cooperation with civil society and international organizations, are in favor of promoting the political rights of women at all levels of government. This initiative will be carried out within the framework of the implementation of the National Action Plan for Achieving Gender Equality in the Kyrgyz Republic for 2018-2020.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13990-why-30-gender-quota-local-councils-important




Date: 06 March 2018
Title: The Government of Japan allocates US$6.2 million for improving maternal and child health, and drug control in the Kyrgyz Republic
Content: 06 March 2018
Mr. Sapar Isakov, the Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic, opened the official ceremony, which was followed by the official exchange of notes between Mr. Yoshihiro Yamamura, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic, Mrs. Yukie Mokuo, UNICEF Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic, and Ms. Ashita Mittal, UNODC Regional Representative for Central Asia. These programmes have been developed by the UN agencies following the consultations with the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, taking into consideration the national priorities.
"Japan has kept close relationship with Kyrgyzstan since its independence, and our country has always supported the establishment of true democracy for Kyrgyz government and its citizens.  Valuing the result of the previous projects of UNICEF and UNODC, we hope that these projects boost the improvement of social economic situation of the Kyrgyz Republic,” told Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Kyrgyz Republic Mr. Yoshihiro Yamamura.
The project for Strengthening Maternal and Child Health Care Systems will reach over 924,000 children aged 0-5 in the Kyrgyz Republic. Also, it will ensure the coverage of over 150,000 pregnancies in the country through improved capacity of healthcare workers at the primary level. With the Government of Japan contribution of US$3.5 million to this programme, UNICEF and the Ministry of Health will re-construct and rehabilitate water infrastructure, hot water, heating and sewage system in 18 hospitals as well as procure live-saving equipment and supplies. The project also envisages strengthening involvement and participation of communities, community-based groups and families in identifying priority health needs and support women and caregivers in the improvement of child care practices and care seeking behaviors.
“The partnership between the Government of Japan and UNICEF will expand our health programme to save more lives of girls and boys. We are grateful to the Government of Japan for the continued commitment to reach every child in the Kyrgyz Republic,” said UNICEF Representative Yukie Mokuo. “Supporting the efforts of the Ministry of Health, this programme aims at further reduction of child mortality and increased universal health coverage,” she added.
The contribution from the Government of Japan for the initiative on Drug Control is very timely, as Kyrgyzstan is located in close proximity to Afghanistan, where in 2017 the cultivation of opium poppy increased by 63 per cent to an all-time high. The risks of trafficking may increase including through the northern route and given that the country has recently undergone a law enforcement reform process, United Nations Ooffice on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) is committed to support the new structures that relate to counter narcotics. Through the US$2.7 million contribution by the Government of Japan, UNODC will provide technical support for drug control efforts in the country within the framework of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia 2015-2019. These efforts will be aimed at supporting strong national legislation on drug control, national operational capacities on drug law enforcement, as well as for enhancing the capacities of other competent authorities in maintaining the legal turnover of controlled narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors under the ratified UN conventions. As part of a balanced and comprehensive integrated strategy, the health consequences of drug use especially for the young and vulnerable population will also be addressed.
Thanking the people of Japan, Ms. Ashita Mittal, UNODC Regional Representative for Central Asia, noted: “It is critical to build the country’s counter narcotics efforts, including operational responses for enhancing interdictions, to counter the many challenges it may face as a result of the dynamic drug markets that can have a direct impact on the overall safety, security, governance and health of the citizens of the country. These efforts contribute to the overall Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 agenda.”
UNODC assists the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic and citizens in reducing the threats caused by illicit drug trafficking, transnational organized crime and terrorism. We work with our partners in various fields, including combating organized crime, trafficking in human beings and corruption, as well as promoting reform of the criminal justice system and preventing non-medical drug use. For more information about UNODC and its work, please visit www.unodc.org and follow up on Facebook
UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child, in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in over 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere. For more information about UNICEF and its work, please visit: www.unicef.org/kyrgyzstan. Follow us on  Facebook and Twitter.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12876-government-japan-allocates-us62-million-improving-maternal-and-child-health-and-drug-control




Date: 06 March 2018
Title: UN Women Statement on the International Women's Day: “Think Equal, Build Smart, Innovate for Change”
Content: 06 March 2018
At a time when innovation is dominant, shaping and changing the way people live in every part of the world, we have to be intentional about its use to positively impact the lives of women and girls. That means making sure they are not only consumers of innovation, but take their place as innovators. With their engagement, both design and execution of solutions can address the unique needs of women and girls, from the creation of decent work to delivery of products, services and infrastructure for women in all walks of life. This year’s theme for International Women’s Day, “Think Equal, Build Smart, Innovate for Change” puts innovation at the centre of efforts to reflect the needs and viewpoints of women and girls and to resolve barriers to public services and opportunities.
Remoteness need no longer be an exclusion issue when mobile money technology and digital payments can deliver social benefits to even the most remote households. Lack of roads need not prevent life-saving medication from reaching patients, with smart inventions like 15-year old Nigerian Eno Ekanem’s drone to make drops to rural areas, controlled by SMS messaging.
Lack of electric light did not stop Midwife Lorina Karway from delivering babies at night in remote parts of Liberia; she improvised using her phone light. Now however, simple, low-cost solar lamps made by women have brought a creative, sustainable solution to Lorina, and to multiple health centres and individual homes that previously lacked access to energy infrastructure. This important invention that jumpstarts access to modern renewable energy can be further developed to be even easier to handle and use.
Women’s fresh, relevant thinking also brings transformative change to large-scale infrastructure, both virtual and physical. Our Buy from Women Enterprise Platform uses mobile technology to connect women farmers and cooperatives to information, finance and markets, optimizing the supply chain for women. The large ‘Senergy’ solar-power project in Dakar, Senegal drew on women’s views in development, bringing shared benefits such as upgrades to the local school, the funding of a microcredit association to promote women’s businesses in the local area, and premises for a maternity unit. Syrian architect Marwa al-Sabouni’s award-winning vision for the redevelopment of the razed district of Baba Amr, Homs, includes ways to restore cooperation, social cohesion, and a sense of identity after the devastation of war.
Innovation and technology reflect their designers and makers. Knowing that algorithms increasingly determine selection and response, we need to react to the growing evidence that women have been routinely left out of the data on which decisions are made. “Big data’ is only a reliable support for decision-making if it draws on a pool of unbiased information.
Groups that are under-represented and marginalized based on their race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or socio-economic status also need to have the opportunity to create and to provide feedback on what is created by others. This might be urban planning that designs for commuter or pedestrian safety with simple measures like better lighting and walkways that reflect crowdsourced data on hotspot attack or harassment zones. Or it could be toilet constructions that support women’s period management needs. Or the use of biometrics as ID to replace formal registration documents that many women may not have or control. In any of these scenarios, innovation and technology with a gender perspective are crucial to remove barriers and accelerate progress for gender equality.
Our Global Innovation Coalition for Change brings representatives from the private sector, academia, and non-profit institutions to develop the innovation market so as to work better for women and to accelerate the achievement of gender equality and women’s empowerment.
Women and girls must have opportunities to contribute to making real change, and help shape the policies, services and infrastructure that impact their lives. As we have seen from recent marches for climate action in Europe and elsewhere—they are ready to do so.
When we put the focus on those who are least heard, and least visible—whether individuals, or those hundreds of millions of informal sector workers who currently have little or no presence in official planning, or financial protection that will sustain them in ill-heath, child care or older age—we are tackling some of the deepest-reaching social problems and can make the progress we want to see.

UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13992-un-women-statement-international-womens-day-%E2%80%9Cthink-equal-build-smart-innovate-change%E2%80%9D




Date: 02 March 2018
Title: UNODC “Line Up, Live Up” program continues building life skills of youth to promote peace and a culture of lawfulness in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 02 March 2018
By enhancing knowledge of the consequences of crime and substance abuse and developing life skills, “Line Up, Live Up” seeks to positively influence behaviour and attitudes of at-risk youth and prevent anti-social and risky behaviour. Kyrgyzstan is one of the pilot countries where the global UNODC initiative is implemented.
Within the 2017-2018 period, 64 sports coaches and physical education teachers from Bishkek city and Batken, Chuy, Jalal-Abad and Osh provinces were certified to deliver the sports-based life-skills development curriculum for over 800 youth in 42 pilot schools and other sports and educational centres.
“Together with UNODC, the State Agency on Youth, Physical Education and Sports has rolled out the “Line Up, Live Up” curriculum in various parts of the country, including in 21 sport schools working under our State Agency’s umbrella. We also produced a series of public social advertisements, broadcasted on national TV, which highlight the contributions that sport can make to the empowerment of individuals, particularly women and young people, as well as to health, education and social inclusion”, said Mr. Mirlan Parkhanov, Deputy Director of the State Agency on Youth, Physical Education and Sports.
“UNODC expresses its appreciation to the State Agency for Youth, Physical Education and Sports for the partnership and support provided. Based on the feedback from the involved trainers, we intend to continue implementation and replication of the program in Kyrgyzstan”, noted Mr. Koen Marquering, Manager of UNODC’s Criminal Justice Program in Central Asia. “Line Up Live Up” uses interesting, interactive approaches. Thanks to the trainers using these approaches, children grow up to lead law-abiding lives and contribute to the sustainable development of the country”.
«I participated in the “Line Up Live Up” trainers’ course and was certified as a coach. I was amazed at the subtlety of the methodology and content of the curriculum. Trainers and PE teachers play an important role in children’s upbringing. We need to invest in the development of a peaceful, safe and prosperous society, and the best way of doing so is investing in life skills of our children”, said Mr. Azamat Abdrakhmanov, Head of the Juvenile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Interior of the Kyrgyz Republic.
“We started the course at the Center for the Prevention of Juvenile Delinquency. Adolescents are usually brought to the center following police raids in the city. Initially, they are unhappy to be at the center. “Line Up, Live Up” helps us to gain their trust and change their attitudes. Some 60 youngsters have gone through the training on a voluntary basis now. 15 of them keep coming to the center to help us with the “Line Up, Live Up” lessons”.
Roundtable participants discussed the outcomes of the pilots conducted with the sports-based, life-skills training curriculum for youth aged 13-18 in Kyrgyzstan. They exchanged best practices, opinions on the training course. UNODC awarded them with sportswear and letters of appreciation.
Mr. Johannes De Haan, Coordinator of the “Line Up, Live Up” initiative from UNODC Headquarters in Vienna, shared international standards and best practices of youth crime prevention. He also reported on the global achievements of this initiative.
“Line Up, Live Up” is implemented in Kyrgyzstan as part of the UNODC Global Program on Implementation of the Doha Declaration, which was implemented following the latest UN Crime Congress in 2015. The program strengthens youth resilience to crime, violence and drug use by enhancing their personal and social skills and increasing their knowledge on the risks associated with these phenomena.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/13988-unodc-%E2%80%9Cline-live-%E2%80%9D-program-continues-building-life-skills-youth-promote-peace-and-culture




Date: 26 February 2018
Title: UNODC and the Mayor’s office of Bishkek city present a report on Public Safety in Sverdlovskii Rayon
Content: 26 February 2018
For the first time in Kyrgyzstan, a joint plan is developed and discussed in an urban setting by the local government, the police and civil society rallied around a common goal - making the city safer for all its inhabitants.
This report provides valuable insights into the organization of a process that allows people to express their opinion about the key priorities in preventing crime and promoting public safety at community level.
Based on the report, government and civil society stakeholders have come together to identify realistic measures that can be taken to address such issues as unsafety in public places, juvenile delinquency and anti-social behaviour, high death ratio and injuries in traffic accidents, property thefts.
The publication was designed as part of the Sub-Programme 2 “Criminal justice, crime prevention and integrity” of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia in partnership with the Public union “For Reforms and results” with financial support provided by the US State Department’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL).
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12873-unodc-and-mayor%E2%80%99s-office-bishkek-city-present-report-public-safety-sverdlovskii-rayon




Date: 20 February 2018
Title: UNICEF: Kyrgyzstan ranks #79 out of 184 countries on neonatal mortality rate
Content: 20 February 2018
Babies born in Japan, Iceland and Singapore have the best chance at survival, while newborns in Pakistan, the Central African Republic and Afghanistan face the worst odds. With neonatal mortality rate of 11.6 or equivalent to 1 in 86 (deaths per 1, 000 live births in 2016), the rank of Kyrgyzstan is 79 out of 184 countries – for the full list of rankings on newborn mortality for all countries, click here .
“While we have more than halved the number of deaths among children under the age of five in the last quarter century, we have not made similar progress in ending deaths among children less than one month old,” said Henrietta H. Fore, UNICEF’s Executive Director. “Given that the majority of these deaths are preventable, clearly, we are failing the world’s poorest babies.”
Globally, in low-income countries, the average newborn mortality rate is 27 deaths per 1,000 births, the report says. In high-income countries, that rate is 3 deaths per 1,000. Newborns from the riskiest places to give birth are up to 50 times more likely to die than those from the safest places.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12875-unicef-kyrgyzstan-ranks-79-out-184-countries-neonatal-mortality-rate




Date: 19 February 2018
Title: UNODC supports the development of effective and transparent crime data collection systems in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 19 February 2018
To support this initiative, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) recently provided the General Prosecutor’s Office with 50 new computers and other related equipment worth over 2 million Kyrgyz soms.
"By establishing a single, automated system for crime and criminal justice data collection, it will become possible to track criminal cases throughout the criminal justice chain, from the moment a crime is registered to the execution of a court ruling", said Azizbek Usubaliev, Head of the Legal Statistics Unit at the General Prosecutor's Office. "The new equipment will allow us to collect objective and reliable crime data. This will be of great benefit to the promotion of the rule of law in the country", he added.
According to Vera Tkachenko, Acting Head of the UNODC Programme Office in Kyrgyzstan, "the creation of the new database will ensure transparent crime registration and more effective criminal investigations and prosecution in court. This will contribute to increased public confidence in the criminal justice system".
UNODC supports the establishment of the new crime registry within the framework of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia with funding provided by the Government of Japan.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12872-unodc-supports-development-effective-and-transparent-crime-data-collection-systems-kyrgyzstan




Date: 16 February 2018
Title: UNODC and Japan partner with Kyrgyzstan’s Prison Service to prevent violent extremism
Content: 16 February 2018
With funding provided by the Government of Japan, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) has been working with Kyrgyzstan’s Prison Service to enhance prison security, promote social rehabilitation of offenders and prevent violent extremist ideas from spreading in prisons.
During the past year, UNODC has completed refurbishment works and procured furniture and equipment with a total value of over 120,000 USD for 6 correctional facilities to improve conditions of detention and develop the knowledge and skills of prison staff to manage violent extremist offenders.
The Prison Service recently showcased the results of these interventions at prison No. 47 in Bishkek where facilities for prisoners to call their loved ones and offices for psychologists and social workers have been upgraded, combined with the creation of a library and work space for prisoners to engage in vocational training and income generating activities.
"The interventions we are piloting in partnership with UNODC allow us to work more effectively with prisoners to promote their social reintegration and prevent recruitment into the ranks of violent extremist groups”, said Zhorobek Duishenbiev, Deputy Chairman of the Prison Service. “We are at the beginning of a long-term effort. Much remains to be done."
"Our joint project is producing concete results. I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to UNODC and responsible State institutions for their cooperation to prevent radicalization to violence in prisons. We intend to continue supporting such partnerships in the future", said Yoshikawa Daisuke, First Secretary at the Embassy of Japan.
To improve the Prison Service’s outdated filing system, UNODC has been supporting the Prison Service to move from a paper-based to an electronic format for the registration of documents and other items in 6 pilot prisons. Computers, printers and passport scanners were purchased and instructions for the introduction of new software for electronic registration of visits, packages and parcels developed. Staff of pilot prisons received special training enabling them to start using the software.
"Prison staff are at the core of any prison system. Prison administrations should devote sufficient time and resources to attract and train qualified professionals, including psychologists, social workers and operational staff. This is all the more important to ensure effective prevention of extremist activity in prisons", said Vera Tkachenko, Acting Head of the UNODC Programme Office in Kyrgyzstan.
The Japanese-funded project paid considerable attention to meaures enhancing prison security. Cell blocks holding violent extremist prisoners were equipped with video surveillance, portable radios and secure doors. Office furniture was provided and air-conditioning installed for prison staff. Sports equipment was procured for the prisoners. Workshops were created to engage prisoners in the manufacturing of leather and felt products.
In 2017, the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic adopted a new State Programme to Counter Extremism and Terrorism covering the period from 2017 to 2022. This Programme foresees research on the conditions that are conducive to radicalization leading to violence and implementation of measures to prevent recruitment by violent extremist groups. UNODC assists the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in the implementation of this strategic document within the framework of the UNODC Programme for Central Asia.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12871-unodc-and-japan-partner-kyrgyzstan%E2%80%99s-prison-service-prevent-violent-extremism




Date: 14 February 2018
Title: Brand new pre-school facility to open in Jel Aryk
Content: 14 February 2018
In July 2015, UNDP in the Kyrgyz Republic and the Kyzyl-Oktyabr Aiyl Okmotu signed an agreement on construction of energy efficient preschool facility.
Today, construction of the pre-school facility is on its final stage and shall be opened in a month or so. It is expected that this biulding in the area will be a place of quality early child development and will attract public attention to the importance of preschool education and to the necessity of having similar institutions in other most vulnerable parts of the country. The preschool institution aimed to contribute to improving the environment by reducing emissions, increase energy efficiency by reducing consumption of traditional fossil fuels.
“We are really glad that we have constructed this pre-school facility. It took us only 6 months to do it. That kindergarten we used to go is quite far away and we had to travel by car whenever it was hot or cold outside. An now we a have a possibility to use the brand new biulding,” said Karachach Osmonova, head of Kyz Kuye, Jel  Aryk, Choluk villages.
Kyzyl-Oktyabr Aiyl Okmotu consists of nine settlements, 5 of which are located on the central part at a distance from 7 to 38 km. Today on the territory of the local self-government only 2 schools and 2 preschools are functioning. Unfortunately, the existing kindergartens are not able to cover all children under school age, due to the limited places and distance - 5 villages are located at a distance from 7 to 38 km from the village of Kyzyl-Oktyabr, where one of the kindergartens operates. The number of population in these 5 villages comprises 146 households - 710 persons, 150 children of which are from 0 to 18 years old, 58 children from 0 to 6 years old.
In 5 villages social infrastructure objects like FAPs, schools, kindergartens completely absent. Villagers seek a medical help from the district center, and school-age children every day during the school period should go to the nearest school located in the distance from 7 to 38 km. Some residents send their preschool age children to the kindergarten in Kyzyl-Oktyabr village. Parents have to bring their children to a long distance, which is very expensive, but there is no other way - without preschool education it is difficult to be accepted by secondary schools. In winter time, daily trips directly affect to the increase of diseases among children. Because of this, many parents must wait until children get well, which ultimately leads to the intellectual backwardness of children.
With the new pre-school facility, these problems seem to be solved if not to the fullest but shall bring this project to attention and to be developed further by Government, development partners and private sector. This will also help women to engage in economic activity by having extra time while children are in the kindergarten.
In 2015, 1560 kindergartens were registered in the Kyrgyz Republic, out of which only 960 are functioning for its intended purpose, more than half of them need repair, and 89 are in poor condition. The lack of available preschool facilities leads to increased social stratification of these children and future adults of the population. Thus, the lack of preschool facilities in rural areas and absence of attention to early childhood development is difficult for them to further socialize and it decreases their chances to success in schools and in life in the future.
Location of the biulding: #7/2, Zapadnaia Str., Jel-Aryk village, Kemin rayon of Chuy oblast. The project contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals through introduction of the energy efficient technologies. The pre-school facility was constructed with the support of UNDP in the Kyrgyz Republic.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12870-brand-new-pre-school-facility-open-jel-aryk




Date: 13 February 2018
Title: A law on prohibition of child marriages is entering in its active phase of implementation
Content: 13 February 2018
Participants see the need for joint implementation of the Plan to enforce the law on the prohibition of marriage rituals with minors, which will lead to effective implementation of the Plan, which in turn helps to eradicate early marriages in Kyrgyzstan.
Throughout the world, child marriage is considered discriminatory that severely violates the rights of children. 2 out of 100 maternal deaths studied in Kyrgyzstan were that of young women under 18 years old. In 2014, approximately 12.7% of Kyrgyzstani women aged 20-49 years old got married before adulthood. In terms of the number of births per 1,000 women aged 15-19, Kyrgyzstan ranks second among 8 CIS countries after Azerbaijan.
In November 2016, a new Clause was introduced into the Criminal Code of KR banning religious rites for child marriage consecration. A person conducting child marriage religious rites, the child’s parents and an adult groom are punishable by imprisonment for 3 - 5 years. Currently, there are already cases of criminal prosecution under this Clause and conviction by the court of those, who have violated the legislation on marriageable age and conducted religious rites for child marriage.
From September 2017 to February 2018, as part of the project “Promoting democracy and stability in Kyrgyzstan through an improved legal mechanism” under the Project Component “Support for implementation of the law on prohibition of child marriage rites” (“On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of the Kyrgyz Republic” (Family Code of KR, Criminal Code of KR) of 17 November 2016, No. 179) the League actively promoted further implementation of the law banning child marriage rites with the support from the British Embassy. During this period of work, the League held a number of successful working and advocacy meetings, which eventually led to signing the Plan for Enforcement of the Law. The plan was signed by the Ministry of Labor and Social Development, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Culture, Information and Tourism, Ombudsman, Ministry of Health, State Commission for Religion, State Agency for Youth, Physical Culture and Sports. According to the plan, the police and schools of the country from now on will independently conduct preventive and precautionary measures aimed to prevent early and child marriages. These activities were previously supported by women's and human right organizations throughout the country.
In addition, the League experts trained more than 100 representatives of law enforcement bodies, education, social protection and health authorities, as well as representatives of the Spiritual Administration of Muslims of Kyrgyzstan, Attorney Association and public organizations on prevention of child marriages. A staff of the above structures will further respond to a violation of this legislation in a timely manner.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12868-law-prohibition-child-marriages-entering-its-active-phase-implementation




Date: 06 February 2018
Title: Kyrgyzstan has become one step closer to E-Government with support of UNDP and the Government of Japan
Content: 06 February 2018
The mobile hubs are an important part of the e-government system developed within the project that improves the Unified State Population Registry. The project aims to assist the State Registration Service to expand its registry functions, provide fast, high-quality and timely services to citizens including remote regions, reduce corruption and become a basis for the e-government.
“For registry service provisioning, there are more than 380 kiosks and public service offices across the country which covers more than 2 mln beneficiaries and more than 500,000 of them have already received e-ID. However, we still have people who live in remote areas and don’t have a full-fledged access to the public services, and consequently, they are facing some barriers to receive the necessary registration service. In this regard, these equipped vans will increase our outreach and become true mobile centers for documentation to ensure that no one is left behind”, said Sapar Isakov at the ceremony.
Yamamura, Ambassador of Japan emphasized that Japan shares the common value of democracy with Kyrgyz Republic since its independence and this project embodies Japan’s philosophy.  He appraised the peaceful change of government last year and hopes the result of this project helps the sustainable development of the country.
“UNDP puts e-government into focus by calling it an effective tool to help support the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals. E-government can work to facilitate integrated policies and public services by promoting accountable and transparent institutions. Efficiency in service delivery must be combined with social equity and accessibility to quality services for all. Only then the ICTs can truly transform the public sector into an instrument of sustainable development”, said Dr. Ojielo, in his opening remarks at the ceremony.
* * *
UNDP partners with people at all levels of society to help build nations that can withstand crisis, and drive and sustain the kind of growth that improves the quality of life for everyone. On the ground in nearly 170 countries and territories, we offer global perspective and local insight to help empower lives and build resilient nations.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12867-kyrgyzstan-has-become-one-step-closer-e-government-support-undp-and-government-japan




Date: 01 February 2018
Title: New report to provide key recommendations to improve hospital safety and disaster preparedness in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 01 February 2018
It is estimated that every year over 200 human-made or natural emergencies occur in Kyrgyzstan that directly or indirectly engage and/or relate to the work of the hospital sector. The country’s disaster-prone geographic location coupled with its high frequency and scale of natural and human-made emergencies make hospital safety and hospital preparedness extremely critical.
This context underscores the need to ensure that health facilities are safe from potential threats in times of crisis, and ready to meet the increased demand for care during challenging situations. The assessment of Kyrgyz hospitals was an important step towards ensuring overall preparedness for emergencies.
A group of international WHO experts trained national subject-matter experts in the use of the WHO Hospital Safety Index tool. The teams of civil and maintenance engineers and emergency management and coordination experts then conducted assessments in hospitals in various parts of the country. They reviewed hospital emergency plans and other safety-related documents, interviewed hospital staff and conducted physical inspections of hospital infrastructure.
The Hospital Safety Index tool comprises 3 categories: structural safety, nonstructural safety, and emergency and disaster management capacity.
The assessment classified fewer than half of the evaluated hospitals (31 hospitals, or 44.3%) under safety group “B”, indicating an average level of safety. It classified the remaining 39 hospitals (55.7%) under safety group “C”, indicating a low level of safety. None of the evaluated hospitals met the criteria for a hospital with a high safety level.
Key recommendations to strengthen hospital safety in the country include:
WHO is aiming to enhance disaster preparedness and operational readiness at the country level. It plans to repeat such assessments every 5 years to monitor progress and ensure implementation of the identified remedial measures to strengthen hospital safety and improve overall emergency preparedness.
The assessment work was carried out with the support of the Universal Health Coverage Partnership “Supporting policy dialogue on national health policies, strategies and plans and universal coverage”, financed by the European Union, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and WHO.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12865-new-report-provide-key-recommendations-improve-hospital-safety-and-disaster-preparedness




Date: 22 January 2018
Title: Road safety: Kyrgyzstan sees decrease in deaths
Content: 22 January 2018
Presentations on the current road safety situation in Kyrgyzstan from the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Interior, the police and NGOs confirmed a decrease in deaths in road traffic accidents.
Dr Murzaliev informed participants that the Government had given the topic of road safety high priority, with the Prime Minister leading the commission on road safety.
With the assistance of WHO, a legislative review of the laws on risk factors such as speeding, drink–driving and not using safety equipment was conducted. The outcomes of the review were debated at the policy dialogue in 2016. Recommendations from the 2016 policy dialogue were put to Parliament, which then proposed legislative amendments to increase penalties for speeding, drink–driving and not using safety equipment.
Dr Murzaliev shared that great progress had also been achieved with regard to the health system response to traffic accidents. “In order to ensure the availability of medical assistance to those injured as a result of the road crashes, 376 medical centres have opened to provide emergency medical care,” he continued.
Addressing the risk of death in road traffic is fundamental to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SDG 3.6 sets the target of halving the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents by 2020.
To support countries in achieving this target, WHO has emphasized the importance of the systems approach. Save LIVES, a technical package developed by WHO, was identified during the meeting as a tool for reducing death on the roads. The package describes 22 interventions embedded within 6 major areas:
Dr Jarno Habicht, WHO Representative in Kyrgyzstan, said, “There are a lot of initiatives in this technical package, from which it is possible to choose the measures that are most suitable for Kyrgyzstan. Traffic crashes and their consequences can be reduced if each person maintains a culture of driving while observing the rules of road safety. For example, 70% of lives can be saved by simply fastening seat belts, and children’s injuries and deaths can be avoided by using children’s seats.”
The meeting ended with participants requesting WHO support to implement the Save LIVES package in 2018 and 2019. This will help Kyrgyzstan attain the target of the Decade of Action for Road Safety of a 50% reduction in road crash deaths by 2020.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12863-road-safety-kyrgyzstan-sees-decrease-deaths




Date: 12 January 2018
Title: UN Resident Coordinator of the UN System in the Kyrgyz Republic, Resident Representative of UNDP presented copies of credentials to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Content: 12 January 2018
Mr Ozonnia Ojielo presented to the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Kyrgyz Republic the copies of credentials signed by the UN Secretary-General.
During the course of the discussion they exchanged views on further strengthening broad-based cooperation between the UN and the Kyrgyz Republic.
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12862-un-resident-coordinator-un-system-kyrgyz-republic-resident-representative-undp-presented




Date: 03 January 2018
Title: From a landfill to a greenhouse: a story of transformation
Content: 03 January 2018
A local farmer has managed to eliminate a landfill in the center of the village of Jylkeldi (Ak-Tash aiyl okmotu, Kara-Suu district, Osh region) and built a greenhouse on this spot with a total area of 770 square meters.
What exquisitely juicy tomatoes and cucumbers have grown a resident of the village of Jylkeldi Syrbek Sali in his new greenhouse! Every morning Syrbek with other greenhouse workers starts his day taking a tour of the greenhouse, pulling out weeds and connecting drip irrigation system that entails reduced water consumption. Syrbek enjoys his work and now the greenhouse is pleasing with its results. Putting a lot of effort in it was not in vain. However, the story began differently.
There used to be a silage pit in the very center of Zhylkeldi village. For years it had been filling with garbage and was in an unhygienic state. Eventually, the dump in the silage pit had grown to 1000 square meters and began to approach the nearby yards of the houses. The villagers excused themselves by saying that they had nowhere else to throw out the garbage, while the local authorities keep complaining about lack of equipment and financial resources for garbage disposal. This unsolved issue was lowering trust of the population towards the local government solution to the issue caused resentment and a decrease in confidence in local authorities.
Thoughts about his native land, the unreasonable use of land and the rude attitude to nature led Syrbek to the idea that something must be changed. That is how an idea of cleaning the site and building a greenhouse there appeared. "Every time when I went to the mosque I looked at this landfill on my way and thought about how to clean it out. After all, our children play in all this dirt where infections are spread. So, in 2011, I applied to local government through the public foundation “Birimdik Ak-Tash” with a request to sell me this piece of land on which the former silage pit was located. For my family and friends, it sounded like a very absurd idea, they could not believe that I decided to "waste my money in a landfill". The idea to build a greenhouse there came to me after buying the land and clearing it", says Syrbek.
Everyone knows that the construction of a greenhouse is not easy and a quite costly job. Although Syrbek invested all his savings to implement his project, he came across with some financial difficulties, and he began to look for an opportunity to receive a grant. That is when he found the opportunity to apply for the UNDP project «Aid For Trade” funded by the Government of Finland, which had allocated about 10,000 USD.
Community mobilization and public awareness activities were carried out to solve the environmental problem of the village and the pit was cleared out. To ensure the further safe cultivation of crops on the site, the land was covered with more than 35 cubes of black-earth soil. Due to the peculiarities of the land plot, Syrbek chose to cultivate more or less traditional for the region tomatoes and cucumbers. Further, he installed a drip irrigation system. Moreover, the greenhouse had created five new job places for young people from the low-income families.
"In the beginning, I had no faith at all in that my husband’s idea could work. Well, just think, everyone is eager to buy nice and clean land, but he buys a landfill. Everyone looks at the places that are more plane, but he takes the pit – I had a terrible indignation.” – remembers Syrbek’s wife Anara.
With the improvement of the ecological situation in the village, people's attitude to the problem of preserving natural resources has changed. "Many neighbors are grateful for the initiative of supporting ecology in the village. I am no longer alone who actively works with local authorities to solve the waste problem and develop a proper management system in this direction,” - says Syrbek.
For sure, Syrbek has not lost. The farmer can be proud of himself for not only expanding his business but also for contributing to the environment of the village. He is an example of diligence and faith in his work.
Mavliuda Khodzhaeva, UNDP PR/Communications Specialist, Osh/Batken Area-Based Development  Programme
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12698-landfill-greenhouse-story-transformation




Date: 01 January 2018
Title: UNICEF: Nearly 400 babies to be born on New Year’s Day in Kyrgyzstan
Content: 01 January 2018
Approximately 400 babies will be born in Kyrgyzstan on New Year’s Day, UNICEF said today. The estimated 385,793 babies will be born globally on New Year’s Day.  Globally, over half of these births are estimated to take place in nine countries:
·        India — 69,070
·        China — 44,760
·        Nigeria — 20,210
·        Pakistan — 14,910
·        Indonesia — 13,370
·        The United States of America — 11,280
·        The Democratic Republic of Congo — 9,400
·        Ethiopia — 9,020
·        Bangladesh — 8,370
While many babies will survive, some will not make it past their first day. In 2016, an estimated 2,600 children died within the first 24 hours every day of the year. For almost 2 million newborns, their first week was also their last. In all, 2.6 million children died before the end of their first month. Among those children, more than 80 per cent of all newborn deaths are due to preventable and treatable causes such as premature birth, complications during delivery, and infections like sepsis and pneumonia.
“This New Year, UNICEF’s resolution is to help give every child more than an hour, more than a day, more than a month - more than survival,” said Yukie Mokuo, UNICEF Representative in Kyrgyzstan. “We call on governments and partners to join the fight to save millions of children’s lives by providing proven, low-cost solutions.”
Over the past two decades, the world has seen unprecedented progress in child survival, halving the number of children worldwide who die before their fifth birthday to 5.6 million in 2016. In Kyrgyzstan, from 1990 to 2016 the number of deaths of children under 5 was reduced by two thirds, while the neonatal mortality rate was cut in half from 24 to 12 deaths per 1,000 live births. But despite these advances, there has been slower progress for newborns. Babies dying in the first month account for 46 per cent of all deaths among children under five.
Next month, UNICEF will launch Every Child Alive, a global campaign to demand and deliver affordable, quality health care solutions for every mother and newborn. These include a steady supply of clean water and electricity at health facilities, the presence of a skilled health attendant during birth, disinfecting the umbilical cord, breastfeeding within the first hour after birth, and skin-to-skin contact between the mother and child.
“We are now entering the era when all the world’s newborns should have the opportunity to see the 22nd Century,” added Yukie Mokuo. “Unfortunately, nearly half of the children born this year likely won’t. A child born in Sweden in January 2018 is most likely to live to 2100, while a child from Kyrgyzstan would be unlikely to live beyond 2090.”
Notes to Editors
For complete non-rounded estimates on births and life expectancy by countries, click here. For the data, UNICEF worked with the World Data Lab.
The estimates for the number of babies born draws on the period indicators and the life tables of the UN’s World Population Prospects (2017). Building on these datasets, World Data Lab’s (WDL) algorithm projects the number of births for each day by country and gender, and their corresponding life expectancy.
To download photos to accompany this story, visit here.
About UNICEF: UNICEF works for every child. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. UNICEF opened its office in Kyrgyzstan in 1994. For more information about UNICEF and its work with children, please visit our https://www.unicef.org/kyrgyzstan and sign up for our pages in Facebook, Instagram and Twitter
UN House, 160, Chui Avenue
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan
Tel.: +996 312 611 211
Fax: +996 312 611 217
URL: https://kyrgyzstan.un.org/en/12840-unicef-nearly-400-babies-be-born-new-year%E2%80%99s-day-kyrgyzstan




