Date: 01 June 2024
Title: UN Special Coordinator Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert Arrives in  Lebanon
Content: 01 June 2024
“It is an honour to continue my service with the United Nations, here in Beirut,” the new Special Coordinator said. “In the interest of peace, security and stability in Lebanon and the wider region during this critical period, I look forward to closely cooperating with the Lebanese authorities and all partners in Lebanon and the international community to further the implementation of resolution 1701 (2006).”
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres announced the appointment of Ms. HennisPlasschaert (Netherlands) on 20 May. Prior to assuming her current functions in Lebanon, she served as the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (2018-2024).
Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert brings to this position over 25 years of experience in diplomacy, international security and Middle East affairs. Prior to the United Nations, she served as Minister of Defence of the Netherlands (2012-2017). She also served as a member of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands (2010-2012) and as a member of the European Parliament (2004-2010). Additionally, Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert worked for the European Commission in Belgium and Latvia, as well as for the City of Amsterdam and in the private sector. **
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/270420-un-special-coordinator-jeanine-hennis-plasschaert-arrives-lebanon




Date: 30 May 2024
Title: UN-Habitat and the Embassy of Japan in Lebanon complete a multi-sectoral project providing urban solutions to urgent needs in Abou Samra, Tripoli
Content: 30 May 2024
Tripoli, 30 May 2024 -- Today, the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) marked the successful completion of the “Al-Marjeh” project, funded by the Government of Japan in Lebanon. It marks an important milestone towards enhancing the lives of vulnerable urban communities within the Abou Samra area in Tripoli.

Based on a neighborhood profile developed by UN-Habitat, several urgent needs were identified. As a result, the project adopted a multi-sectoral approach to addressing some of these needs, benefitting more than 5,000 individuals. These included enhancing food security through improving skills and livelihoods by implementing urban farming activities; the implementation of renewable energy and clean water solutions in two schools and one health establishment.
The closing event was held in the presence of H.E. Mr. Magoshi Masayuki, the Japanese Ambassador to Lebanon, Mrs. Mirvat Hamzeh, Head of the Educational District Office in the North, and Ms. Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme, as well as the partners of the project.
“This project with UN-Habitat, which falls in the framework of The Japanese Government’s Development Cooperation Charter that prioritizes human security, came as a response to the growing challenges of the communities in Tripoli, in the sectors of food security, agriculture, healthcare, and education. Japan and as it remains committed to stand by Lebanon and its people during these difficult times will continue to encourage durable solutions that address not just the immediate needs of the most vulnerable, but also strengthen national capacities to sustainably improve socio-economic conditions through a holistic development approach” said H.E. Mr. Magoshi Masayuki, the Japanese Ambassador to Lebanon.
The urban farming component offered a means to enhance food security and generate income for more than 150 women and youth. The water and renewable energy interventions were implemented in Samih Mawlawi and Hay Al Nozha public schools benefitting 1,290 students and at the dispensary benefitting more than 1,000 persons. The schools also benefitted from the rehabilitation of its grounds, a playground as well as waterproofing.
“Despite all the social, financial, and economic obstacles dominating Lebanon, especially in this region, this achievement constitutes a remarkable educational renaissance that will empower the students and improve the quality of education. Given the state's inability to fully support these efforts, there is an appeal for continued external support to ensure the success of the schools involved” said Mrs. Mirvat Hamzeh, Head of the Educational District Office in the North.
“’The Al-Marjeh project came at a critical time in Lebanon where women and youth are placed in extremely vulnerable and difficult situations. Thanks to Japan's generous support, this innovative area-based project is a testament to what we can achieve together. It sets a precedent for future multi-sectorial initiatives across the country, including the value and benefit of urban farming in the city. We are proud to have partnered with multiple stakeholders who were critical to the project's success, and to have built trust with the community in Abou Samra spreading awareness on the value of a bottom-up approach to addressing collective needs and challenges, particularly in a dense urban neighbourhood” said Ms. Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon country programme.
- ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/270449-un-habitat-and-embassy-japan-lebanon-complete-multi-sectoral-project-providing-urban




Date: 29 May 2024
Title: ON PEACEKEEPERS’ DAY, UNIFIL PAYS TRIBUTE TO PEACEKEEPERS’ SACRIFICES AND URGES STEPS TOWARDS A DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION
Content: 29 May 2024
UNIFIL today marked the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, an annual event to honour the commitment and sacrifice of women and men serving for peace around the world.
On this day, UNIFIL normally hosts a gathering of peacekeepers; national, local, and religious officials; and members of the Lebanese Armed Forces and other security agencies at our Naqoura headquarters. The mission did not hold an event today due to the security situation and the ongoing exchanges of fire in the south.
“UNIFIL peacekeepers from 49 countries are on the ground in our area of operations, focused on preventing escalation of the fighting and avoiding an all-out war,” said Head of Mission and Force Commander Lieutenant General Aroldo Lázaro. “I am proud of the men and women who continue to carry out their mandated tasks in such difficult conditions, amidst ongoing exchanges of fire.”
Peacekeepers continue to perform their duties to help implement UN Security Council Resolution 1701. At the same time, they are also supporting communities and residents, ensuring humanitarian access to those most affected, providing shelter when civilians are caught in the crossfire and assisting communities in the South with medical, dental, veterinary, and educational assistance, and ensuring humanitarian access to the most affected.
“The death and destruction we have seen on both sides of the Blue Line is heartbreaking,” said Lieutenant General Lázaro. “Too many lives have been lost and disrupted. Thousands of people remain displaced and have lost their homes and their livelihoods. As peacekeepers, we recommit each day to our work to restore stability. We urge all parties and all actors to cease their fire, recommit to Resolution 1701, and begin the work towards a diplomatic solution, which is the only way to bring a return of stability and resolve this situation.”
Peacekeepers’ Day is a day to remember the sacrifices of the men and women serving for peace, UNIFIL’s Head of Mission and Force Commander noted.
“As we mourn those who have fallen for the cause of peace – including Malaysian Sergeant Faridah Abd Rahman, who passed away just a few days ago – we are grateful for their contributions, which will not be forgotten,” said the UNIFIL head.
Almost 4,400 UN peacekeepers have lost their lives in missions around the world since 1948. Over 330 of these men and women served with UNIFIL.
In 2002, 29 May was designated as the International Day of UN Peacekeepers to honour the professionalism, dedication, and courage of the military and civilian peacekeepers serving in UN peacekeeping operations, and to remember those who lost their lives for the cause of peace. The date was chosen to commemorate the establishment of the first peacekeeping mission, the UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), which has more than 50 observers currently working with UNIFIL in south Lebanon.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/270014-peacekeepers%E2%80%99-day-unifil-pays-tribute-peacekeepers%E2%80%99-sacrifices-and-urges-steps-towards




Date: 13 May 2024
Title: UNICEF is still delivering water and sanitation services in informal settlements in Lebanon
Content: 13 May 2024
“Despite numerous challenges, including current funding shortages and limited resources for its water, sanitation and hygiene (WaSH) services in informal settlements, UNICEF remains committed to its humanitarian mission to supporting refugees and continue delivering water and sanitation services in informal settlements in Lebanon.
“UNICEF is making every effort to ensure that its response and services to vulnerable communities are maintained mainly in informal settlements to continue delivering chlorinated trucked water and wastewater desludging to maintain public health and prevent possible spread of water-borne diseases. Clean water, sanitation facilities and good hygiene are crucial.
“Since 2020, we started observing a decrease in the funding trend for WaSH in informal settlements, falling significantly below anticipated levels. This is mainly due to the increasing demand for humanitarian assistance across the world given the unprecedented level of humanitarian crisis.
“This year, UNICEF requires a minimum of USD 12 million to deliver through its partners the minimum acceptable level of WaSH services to refugees in informal settlements. To date and due to additional funding cuts, less than USD 4 million are available.
“UNICEF is employing every effort to support the Government of Lebanon to ensure the safeguarding of children and their families and is calling on donors to sustain crucial investment in support of informal settlements, for the health, safety, and well-being of all”.

###

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children and young people in Lebanon, please visit www.unicef.org/Lebanon.

For more information or interviews, please contact:
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org  / Tel. +9613331874
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unicef.org  / Tel. +96170190634
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/268725-unicef-still-delivering-water-and-sanitation-services-informal-settlements-lebanon




Date: 30 April 2024
Title: Children in Lebanon pay heavy price amid intensifying conflict in the south and compounding national crises
Content: 30 April 2024
BEIRUT, 30 April 2024 – 75 per cent of children in Lebanon at risk of poverty, as multiple overlapping crises push families closer to the brink.
Ongoing hostilities in southern Lebanon are taking a devastating toll on the population, forcing approximately over 90,000 people – including 30,000 children – from their homes. According to the latest report from the Ministry of Public Health, 8 children are among the 344 people killed and 75 children among the 1359 people injured since the escalation of the hostilities in October 2023.
The increase in armed conflict has damaged civilian infrastructure and facilities and has also impacted the essential services that children and families depend on, including significant damage to nine water stations, which serve a population of 100,000 people. More than 70 schools are currently closed, affecting around 20,000 students and significantly affecting their education. Around 23 healthcare facilities - serving 4,000 people - are closed due to the hostilities. “As the conflict impacting the south of Lebanon is in its seventh month, we are deeply concerned by the situation of children and families who have been forced from their homes, and the profound long-term impact the violence is taking on children’s safety, health and access to education,” said UNICEF Representative in Lebanon, Edouard Beigbeder. “As long as the situation remains so volatile, more children will suffer. Protection of children is an obligation under the International Humanitarian Law and every child deserves to be safe.” Prior to the onset of this conflict, Lebanon’s essential services, including health and education systems, were already on the brink of collapse after years of being overstretched. The health system is unable to meet the demands for public healthcare due to a scarcity of resources including energy, human resources, equipment, and medication. The unprecedented financial and economic crises that have devastated the country since 2019 have exacerbated existing economic vulnerabilities, resulting in the loss of jobs and income, high inflation, and a shortage of essential services including electricity and medication. UNICEF, working with partners, have been delivering vital aid to families affected by the hostilities, including life-saving medical supplies, hygiene kits, micronutrient supplements and complementary feeding jars to the displaced families who are mainly living in collective shelters. UNICEF has also delivered fuel, water, water tanks, winter clothes and blankets. A one-time emergency cash support was jointly delivered with the Ministry of Social Affairs to address the immediate needs of 85,000 people. Internally displaced children were able to resume their education in public schools and received new school supplies and transportation assistance. “The situation in the south is adding to the ongoing multiple crises that the country has been facing since 2019,” said Beigbeder. “The severity of the crises is unbearable for children, and more must be done to prevent their suffering. We call for an immediate ceasefire and the protection of children and civilians. We must redouble our efforts to make sure every child in Lebanon is in school and learning, is protected from physical and mental harm, and has the opportunity to thrive and contribute to society." ##### Notes for editors:   For more information and access to multimedia assets here  For more information, please contact:Christoph Boulierac, cboulierac@unicef.org  +96181998437Maya Outayek, moutayek@unief.org +96170190634Joe English, UNICEF New York, jenglish@unicef.org +1917 893 0692
----------------------------------------
Join our UNICEF MENA WhatsApp broadcast list to get our latest news. Send us a text message to the following WhatsApp account and we will add you to our list: +962 79 008 2531

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/menaFollow UNICEF on  Twitter   Facebook   Instagram   LinkedIn   Youtube
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/267398-children-lebanon-pay-heavy-price-amid-intensifying-conflict-south-and-compounding-national




Date: 25 April 2024
Title: Canada-Lebanon-FAO Partnership Forum on Agriculture and Food Security
Content: 25 April 2024
The Forum encompassed the closing event of the FAO project Support to Women’s cooperatives and associations in the agri-food sector of Lebanon (USD6.3 million, 2018-2024) and a roundtable discussion aimed at promoting key areas of collaboration in agriculture and food security in Lebanon.
It aimed at continuing to strengthen the partnership between FAO, Canada, and the Ministry of Agriculture as it relates to advancing women's empowerment and food security in Lebanon.
Key highlights of the event series included:

In the presence of His Excellency the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Abbas Al Hajj Hassan, the Ambassador of Canada to Lebanon, H.E. Stephanie McCollum, and the FAO Representative to Lebanon, Nora Ourabah Haddad, the closing workshop marked the end of project activities. The Director General of Cooperatives at the Ministry of Agriculture, Engineer Gloria Abu Zeid, senior Ministry of Agriculture’s staff, ambassadors, representatives of donors, United Nations agencies, and beneficiaries of the project were also present.
This event emphasized the important role of FAO as the implementing agency, in collaboration with Ministry of Agriculture, through the Directorate General of Cooperatives. The project aimed at empowering rural women and their cooperatives in Lebanon to enhance their livelihoods.
The closing ceremony featured a presentation highlighting the project’s main achievements and challenges, a discussion session involving beneficiaries, and a session on the project’s sustainability.
About the project
Launched in 2019 with funding from the Government of Canada, FAO, in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, implemented the project “Support to Women’s cooperatives and associations in the agri-food sector of Lebanon” over a five-year period. Canada, FAO, and MoA’s strong commitment to promote gender equality and empower women were at the core of the project. The project empowered 255 women's groups through capacity-building initiatives, while 143 of them received grants.
Project activities played a pivotal role in bolstering women’s self-confidence, skills, dedication, and willingness to actively contribute to Lebanon’s rural economy. Moreover, it laid the foundation for an improved cooperative model, fostering sustainable agrifood enterprises while ensuring that all stakeholders adhered to the highest standards of transparency, fairness, inclusivity, objectivity, impact, and sustainability.

2. Roundtable discussion on Canada-Lebanon-FAO Partnership in Agriculture and Food Security in Lebanon: The Embassy of Canada, the Ministry of Agriculture, and FAO discussed potential areas for collaboration within the framework of a project entitled “Enhancing Food and Nutrition Security in Lebanon”, funded by the Government of Canada, and implemented by FAO in close collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture.
The discussion focused on fostering collaborative partnerships in agriculture and food security to promote sustainable agrifood sector development and improve gender equality and women’s empowerment.
It also discussed alignment of the project with the National Agricultural Strategy and the emerging national priorities, agreed on enhancing coordination mechanisms for selecting and targeting beneficiaries, optimizing value chains, identifying geographic focus areas, and promoting involvement and empowerment of women in agriculture with a special emphasis on rural women.
The project aims at promoting the adoption of gender-responsive, nutrition-sensitive, and climate smart agricultural practices, as well as enhancing the performance of fruits and vegetables value chains and the enabling environment for value chain actors. Furthermore, project activities are designed to increase resilience to climate and economic shocks within fruits and vegetables value-chains, to ultimately improve food and nutrition security in Lebanon.
The partnership forum served as a platform to showcase the achievements of the partnership and underscored its impact on agricultural development, food security, and the empowerment of vulnerable communities, particularly women. It provided an opportunity to reflect on accomplishments, outlined future collaboration strategies, and reaffirm the commitment of Canada, FAO, and the Ministry of Agriculture to fostering sustainable and food-secure Lebanon.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/267098-canada-lebanon-fao-partnership-forum-agriculture-and-food-security




Date: 23 April 2024
Title: The European Union and United Nations improve the social and economic functions in Bickfaya-Mhaydseh
Content: 23 April 2024
The protracted socioeconomic, financial, and political crises in Lebanon have severely impacted municipalities across the country. This has affected the services municipalities can provide and their efforts to preserve public infrastructures and facilities.
The rehabilitation of Bickfaya-Mhaydseh town centre, realized through the “paths to improved livelihoods” project, was made possible by the European Union's substantial funding of US$ 466,000. This contribution facilitated the restoration of more than 3.9 kilometres of the town main road, which hosts more than 200 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), 15 percent of which are led by women entrepreneurs.
The recently completed restoration will positively impact the lives of over 9,000 residents. Among the work completed was the rehabilitation of the public garden of the municipality and the planting of 25 landscaping trees, as well as the construction of pedestrian-friendly streets designed to attract a wide variety of shops and stores, thereby enriching the range of services available, providing new commercial opportunities for the local community. This includes upgrading existing infrastructure by establishing new and secure pedestrian crossings, rehabilitating the main road sidewalks, and installing more than 450 traffic and safety signs and more than 2,000 cat’s-eye pavement studs.
“Our sincere thanks go out to all partners who have supported the restoration of the town centre of Bickfaya-Mhaydseh. It is our hope that this initiative is replicated as widely as possible across Lebanese cities and villages. Our community and everyone visiting Bickfaya-Mhaydseh have been made safer and more secure by this project,” said Mayor Nicole Gemayel, Bickfaya-Mhaydseh Municipality.
“The urban regeneration of Bickfaya-Mhaydsseh town centre is part of UN-Habitat’s wider efforts in Lebanon to improve urban stabilization, regeneration and development​. This intervention further highlights the positive impact of the MERP project on the long-term resilience of subnational authorities and the safety and security of their communities. I am delighted that Bickfaya-Mhaydsseh prioritised these interventions to enhance the overall wellbeing of its community, including ensuring access to safe and inclusive public spaces, which often provide an equal ground for people to come together,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon.
"MERP has made significant strides in strengthening municipal capacities. It has enabled municipalities to deliver key services crucial for economic and social resilience. Today, we celebrate the success of the Bickfaya-Mhaydsseh 'Path to Improved Livelihoods' project, which not only revitalized urban areas but also fostered local economic development,” said Raghed Assi, Crisis Prevention and Crisis Response Programme Manager, UNDP Lebanon.

“Through MERP, the EU is supporting local economic development by building resilient, inclusive communities and basic service delivery for all,” said Alessia Squarcella, Deputy Head of Cooperation at the EU Delegation to Lebanon.
These initiatives were supported by a business development plan and a socioeconomic appraisal maximize the project’s impact through recommendations that included qualitative and quantitative assessments at the macro, meso, and micro levels, with a special focus on gender equality, people with disabilities, and vulnerable populations. The recommendations from the appraisal were used to strengthen the project’s final design and implementation.
By facilitating a series of workshops for residents and shop owners in Bickfaya-Mhaydseh, the UN, in partnership with the Municipality of Bickfaya-Mhaydseh, has enhanced the project’s long-term socioeconomic impact. This collaboration has resulted in the formulation of new urban design guidelines. The municipality will implement these guidelines in future construction works to preserve the community’s character and historic essence.
As part of the project, additional funds will be allocated to support implementing a vocational training program in crafts and food processing for entrepreneurs in Bickfaya-Mhaydseh which is expected to start in May 2024. These training courses aim to safeguard and maintain local heritage by transmitting traditional knowledge to future generations and reconnecting them with their heritage and cultural identity. Participants will also receive training in packaging, labelling, and marketing their products, paving the way for their future commercial success.
END

For more information please contact:
Aline Kiwan, MERP Media and Communication Officer, at aline.kiwan@un.org, mobile 03-294070

Note to editors

About the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP)
MERP is a joint project by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat). The Project is being implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MoIM) and funded by the European Union (EU). The project aims to strengthen the long-term resilience of subnational authorities in Lebanon as well as host communities and displaced persons affected by the Syrian crisis. Learn more about MERP at UNDP website and UN-Habitat website.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

Learn more at www.unhabitat.org/lebanon or follow us on Twitter at @UNHabitatLB, on Facebook at UN-Habitat Lebanon and on Instagram at UNHabitatLB

About the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet.
Learn more at www.lb.undp.org or follow on Twitter at @UNDP_Lebanon, on Facebook at UNDP Lebanon and on Instagram at UNDP_Lebanon

About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon.
Learn more on the work of the EU in Lebanon or follow on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at @EUinLebanon

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/266823-european-union-and-united-nations-improve-social-and-economic-functions-bickfaya-mhaydseh




Date: 22 April 2024
Title: Strengthening child-friendly justice in Lebanon
Content: 22 April 2024
The Ministry of Justice, in the framework of a project funded by the European Union and implemented by UNICEF, launched the “On Juvenile Justice”, a comprehensive electronic learning tool to enhance the capacities of judges on juvenile justice. The online training promotes child-friendly justice and strengthens the protection system for children and their best interests when in contact with the law.
Through this project, judges in Lebanon will have access to a specialized, standardized, and comprehensive learning resource on child justice, in Arabic. This innovative course introduces videos, interactive activities and other appealing multimedia elements The content is based on the Lebanon legal framework as well as on the international principles of child justice and addresses the Lebanese justice system.
Minister of Justice Judge Henry El-Khoury said: "The Ministry of Justice has always sought, in accordance with its roles and responsibilities, to ensure the protection for the children of Lebanon with the support of the international community and in coordination with various official bodies and civil society organizations. This is based on its belief in the concept of multidimensional humanitarian, societal, and legal protection. The importance of this program lies in its complementarity of the Lebanese judiciary's ongoing efforts to keep pace with developments in international legal systems, especially in the era of digital transformation we are currently experiencing. It further supports the efforts of the Ministry of Justice in this framework, notably those related to implementing decree of Law 81/2018 on electronic transactions, as well as being part of the continuous training of judges on concepts of human rights in general and children's rights in particular."
The program consists of four modules: ‘children and the justice system’, ‘the child in danger’, ‘child victims and witnesses’, and ‘the child in conflict with the law’.
“The European Union continues to support critical efforts to reform child justice in Lebanon. We have contributed to the development of this all-important e-course, following earlier support on the establishment of child-friendly facilities inside some of the Palaces of Justice’, said Martin Skylv, Deputy Head of Delegation at the European Union Delegation to Lebanon. He added: ‘The EU remains committed to supporting the justice sector and is ready to expand its level of assistance, as long as the Lebanese authorities uphold their commitment to reform”.
The tool can be used by judges and other justice professionals at their own pace. It will also be available to future judges. At the end of the training program, part of a wider reform program, well trained and informed justice professionals will better address the issues faced by children in contact with the law.
“Children in contact with the law are among the most vulnerable children in society. And when they find themselves in that situation, it is because we, as a society, have failed them somewhere,” said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. “Since 2018, we partnered with the Ministry of Justice and the European Union to strengthen and improve the child justice system in Lebanon to address the needs of children in contact with the law and to make the justice system more child-friendly and bring it in line with international standards. While we celebrate these results, we remain committed to continuing to work towards a child justice system that is accessible, adapted to and focused on the needs and the rights of children, and that minimizes the risk of harm inflicted on them during justice proceedings”.
END
For more information please contact
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unief.org +96170190634
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.

For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/266795-strengthening-child-friendly-justice-lebanon




Date: 16 April 2024
Title: Celebrating Results of the Joint UN Productive Sectors Development Programme
Content: 16 April 2024
The event was attended by Mr. George Bouchikian, Lebanese Minister of Industry, Mr. Mohamad Abou Haidar, General Director of the Ministry of Economy and Trade and representative of Minister Amin Salam, and Mr. Salem Darwich, Advisor to and representative of the Minister of Agriculture Abbas Haj Hassan, in addition to Mrs. Stefanie McCollum, Ambassador of Canada to Lebanon, and Mr. Imran Riza, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Lebanon. Representatives of local authorities, the private sector, UN entities, and media outlets also attended the event.
Implemented by six UN entities, namely UNIDO, FAO, UN Women, UNDP, UNICEF, and ILO, and generously funded by the Government of Canada, the PSDP helped create jobs and economically empower women and youth in the agricultural and agri-food sectors in Lebanon.
In his opening remarks, Minister Bouchikian stressed PSDP's success in supporting Lebanon’s productive sectors and in promoting innovation and investment in target areas, saying: "The impact of the programme goes beyond boosting direct economic growth, contributing to improved living standards and creating new jobs, leading to social and economic stability in the regions that are most in need." In his speech, Bouchikian also praised the achievements of the "Lebanon Exports Academy" established under PSDP, which helped enhance the export capacities of entrepreneurs and farmers and opened access to new markets.
“We gather today to celebrate the successful conclusion of the Productive Sectors Development Programme, recognizing the pivotal role of the agriculture sector amidst economic challenges. Through PSDP, we've fortified job creation and food security, ensuring access to sustenance and prosperity for all,” said Abou Haidar in his opening remarks. “With the support of the LEBTRADE team, we've identified new markets for Lebanese products, crafted commercial roadmaps, and facilitated export processes. This aligns with our strategy to empower Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and bolster our trade balance,” said Abou Haidar, renewing the Ministry’s commitment to a “resilient Lebanon, fostering growth and opportunity for all.”
For his part, Darwich thanked the Canadian government and the UN entities for their generous and unwavering support throughout the implementation of the programme. He also highlighted PSDP’s role and impact on the beneficiaries who provided positive feedback to the ministry, particularly for the acquired skills, and access to new customers and international markets. “The ministry is always looking to close the gap in the implementation of agricultural projects through funding from donors and UN entities. The ministry will soon announce a work plan for the coming years on priorities for the agricultural sector and food security in Lebanon,” he concluded in his opening remarks.
For her part, Ambassador McCollum stated: “The PSDP stands as a testament to Canada's steadfast commitment to bolstering Lebanon's productive sectors and fostering economic well-being, particularly for the vulnerable women working in these sectors. By investing in people, particularly those in rural areas, and prioritizing sustainable productive sectors of the economy, we chart a course towards a more prosperous and resilient future for all.”
The ceremony featured the distribution of awards to 11 partners, including high-achieving beneficiaries from PSDP, recognizing their outstanding contributions to the growth and development of Lebanon's agricultural and agri-food sectors in general, and the success of the programme in particular.
In his opening remarks, Riza highlighted the timeliness of the programme amidst increased concerns regarding food security in Lebanon and the unfolding economic crisis, which is making access to financing difficult and the import of raw materials very costly. "In times of crisis, sustainable solutions are paramount,” he said. “PSDP exemplified the power of collaboration and innovation in supporting economic growth and empowering youth and women", he added.
The event also included a short presentation of the PSDP's main results and achievements, and a Panel Discussion with the participation of five PSDP beneficiaries, who presented some inspiring stories of change and success resulting from the programme’s activities.
The closing ceremony at the UN House was followed by the inauguration of the PSDP Booth at HORECA by Minister Bouchikian representing H.E. Caretaker Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati who stated that: “PSDP participation in HORECA is an important example of the needed support today for our productive sectors, private sector and farmers.” Highlighting the government’s commitment to continue collaboration with the UN and partners in supporting similar initiatives in the future, the minister thanked Canada for its generous support to PSDP through the Lebanon Recovery Fund. “We hope to continue our collaboration going forward,” he stressed.
Bouchikian was also joined by Mr. Walid Nassar, Lebanese Minister of Tourism, Ambassador McCollum and UN Resident Coordinator Riza in the inauguration of the PSDP booth that featured agri-food products of over 30 businesses, start-ups, and farmers showcasing a wide range of Mouneh, fruits, and vegetable products.
Moving forward, the successful conclusion of the PSDP sets a strong foundation for continued collaboration and innovation in driving sustainable development and prosperity in the productive sectors and will set the stage for future similar initiatives.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/266094-celebrating-results-joint-un-productive-sectors-development-programme




Date: 08 April 2024
Title: Joint Statement of UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon and UNIFIL Head of Mission on 6 months since the exchanges of fire across the Blue Line began
Content: 08 April 2024
Joint Statement of UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Joanna Wronecka and UNIFIL Head of Mission and Force Commander Lt. Gen. Aroldo Lázaro on six months since the exchanges of fire started across the Blue Line.
It is six months since the exchanges of fire across the Blue Line began, and continue unabated, taking a heavy toll on both sides.  The lives of thousands of people have been profoundly affected.  Tens of civilians have tragically lost their lives while many more have lost their homes, their livelihoods and any sense of certainty for the future.
The unrelenting cycle of strikes and counterstrikes in breach of the cessation of hostilities constitute the most serious violation of Security Council Resolution 1701 since its adoption in 2006. The gradual expansion in the scope and scale of the confrontations well beyond the Blue Line significantly raises the risk of miscalculation and further deterioration of an already alarming situation.
The violence and suffering has gone on too long. It must stop. We urgently appeal to all sides to recommit to the cessation of hostilities under the framework of resolution 1701 and avail of all avenues to avoid further escalation while there is still space for diplomacy.
It is also imperative to focus anew on the overarching objective of a permanent ceasefire and long-term solution to the conflict. A political process, anchored in the full implementation of Resolution 1701, is now more crucial than ever to address the root causes of the conflict and ensure long-term stability.
The United Nations stands ready to support such efforts.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/265440-joint-statement-un-special-coordinator-lebanon-and-unifil-head-mission-6-months-exchanges




Date: 28 March 2024
Title: Media Quote by UN Humanitarian Coordinator Imran Riza related to the unfolding events in South Lebanon
Content: 28 March 2024
Addressing the unfolding events in South Lebanon, where airstrikes have claimed numerous civilian lives, the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Imran Riza, stated:
The tragic events of the past 36 hours have resulted in a significant loss of life and injuries in south Lebanon.
Up to 11 civilians were killed in a single day, including 10 paramedics.
I am deeply disturbed by the repeated attacks on health facilities and health workers who risk their lives to provide urgent assistance to their local communities.
Attacks on healthcare violate international humanitarian law and are unacceptable.
The rules of war are clear: civilians, including healthcare workers, must be protected.
Civilian infrastructure, including health facilities, must be protected.
Healthcare is not a target. Civilians are not a target.
-END-
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/264606-media-quote-un-humanitarian-coordinator-imran-riza-related-unfolding-events-south-lebanon




Date: 22 March 2024
Title: UN-Habitat and the Republic of Korea extends support to public institutions in Zahle
Content: 22 March 2024
Beirut, 21 March 2024. The Government of the Republic of Korea in Lebanon and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) have signed an agreement to provide emergency support to the Zahle Civil Defense Centre. The event was held at the Civil Defense in Zahle in the presence of the Korean Ambassador to Lebanon, Mr. Il Park, and Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme, Ms. Taina Christiansen.

Under the title “Emergency support to Zahle Civil Defense to enhance preparedness and crisis response capacities to better protect communities and respond to conflict and natural disasters”, the project will fully rehabilitate the Centre and provide extensive equipment to enhance the response capacities of the Civil Defense in Zahle. This intervention serves as a second phase of Korea’s ongoing project supporting public institutions in Zahle and is considered a milestone within UN-Habitat’s wider focus on sustainable urban regeneration and development in Zahle.

A delegation from the Government of Korea in Lebanon and UN-Habitat visited project sites to observe implementation progress under the first phase of the project, which includes the provision of renewable energy solutions to the Tel Chiha Hospital, a water pumping station run by the Beqaa Water Establishment and the installation of renewable energy street lighting fixtures.

“We are excited to launch our second project in Zahle in partnership with UN-Habitat. I hope that this project will contribute to improving the working conditions and safety of the civil defense staffs and volunteers, which in turn will facilitate better access to emergency assistance for the people of Zahle” said Mr. Il Park, the Korean Ambassador to Lebanon

“The Municipality of Zahle welcomes the efforts of UN-Habitat and thanks the Korean funding to secure renewable energy for the water well of the Zahle Industrial Zone and the Tal Chiha Hospital, which is currently going through critical stages and needs assistance. We also deeply appreciate the investment in the Civil Defense Centre; we are proud of the members, who were never short on performing their mission to the fullest” said Mr. Assaad Zoghaib, Mayor of Zahle

“This initiative will contribute to improving service conditions in the Bekaa Regional Center by restoring and equipping the building, which will enhance the capabilities of the personnel to handle all types of tasks assigned to them more effectively. The equipment that will be provided to personnel to extinguish fires and carry out search and rescue operations will reflect positively in terms of ensuring public safety and protecting lives and property” said General Raymond Khattar, Director General of Civil Defense.

During the visit to Tel Chiha Hospital, the Korean delegation and UN-Habitat met with Archbishop Ibrahim Ibrahim, head of the hospital’s Supreme Committee who stressed on the importance of ensuring the continuity of the hospital by supplying it with renewable energy. He also noted the crucial role that the hospital plays in providing basic health support to the people of the region.

"We deeply value our extended collaboration with Korea in Lebanon, positively impacting the sustainability of public institutions in the country. This initiative highlights our dedication to ensure enhanced urban services and emergency support to communities in Lebanon amid difficult socio-economic challenges. By bolstering the capabilities of the Zahle District Civil Defense Centre, we are not only mitigating emergencies but also laying the groundwork for a more resilient urban future.” said Ms. Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme

-ENDS-

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/264077-un-habitat-and-republic-korea-extends-support-public-institutions-zahle




Date: 15 March 2024
Title: UN-Habitat and the Embassy of Poland sign a project to provide renewable energy solutions for Civil Defense and Beirut Municipality premises.
Content: 15 March 2024
The project will target two Civil Defense centres located in Beirut and Furn El Chebbak and the Municipality of Beirut. The project was inaugurated at the Municipality of Beirut by the Polish Ambassador to Lebanon, Mr. Przemysław Niesiołowski, the Governor of Beirut, Mr. Marwan Abboud, and Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme, Ms. Taina Christiansen.
Contributing to the Lebanon Response Plan, the project entitled “Improving the ability of public facilities and institutions to better respond to emerging needs and emergencies in Greater Beirut, through strengthened operational capacity” will supply and install photovoltaic systems to generate constant and reliable energy supply to the selected institutions, ensuring the continuity of their essential operations and services to the community.
The design of the systems will be based upon detailed technical assessments of each establishment, accompanied by an energy audit, followed by implementation.


“The Lebanese Civil Defense serves thousands of people. Each and every day brave volunteers risk their lives helping the needy and vulnerable.” said Mr. Przemysław Niesiołowski, Polish Ambassador in Beirut. “By improving the two centres of the Lebanese Civil Defense in and around Beirut, we plan to strengthen their capabilities even more. Poland recognizes the needs of the Lebanese Civil Defense as well as the needs of the Municipality of Beirut. Therefore, we find it exceptionally important to persevere with our long-standing support. Polish Aid supported Lebanese institutions in the past and will remain a steady partner in the future.”
“By investing in sustainable energy solutions for public institutions such as Civil Defense centers and municipal facilities, we are ensuring the resilience and continuity of essential services during times of crisis,” said Mr. Marwan Abboud, Governor of the City of Beirut. “This initiative not only contributes to the Lebanon response plan, but also emphasizes the importance of proactive measures in addressing emerging needs and emergencies in Greater Beirut, and preserving our communities.”
“The UN-Habitat initiative, funded by the Polish government to equip two Civil Defense centres with solar energy systems, represents an important effort to strengthen Civil Defense capabilities,” said General Raymond Khattar, Director General of Civil Defense. “This program is extremely important due to its positive impact on the ability of personnel to deal with emergency situations, especially since they are always on the front lines in cases of war or natural disasters, which contributes to maintaining public safety.”
"We are proud and grateful for our long-standing partnership with Poland in Lebanon, including this critical initiative," said Taina Christiansen. "This project underscores our shared commitment to supporting the people of Lebanon during these challenging times. By strengthening public institutions and improving access to essential services, we aim to make a meaningful difference in the lives of communities living in Greater Beirut."
-Ends-

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/263710-un-habitat-and-embassy-poland-sign-project-provide-renewable-energy-solutions-civil-defense




Date: 13 March 2024
Title: Critical Investments in Key Sectors Can Help Lebanon Mitigate Climate Change Impact on Growth and Prepare for a Green Transition
Content: 13 March 2024

The Lebanon Country Climate and Development Report (CCDR) maps out mounting climate risks to Lebanon and their potential impact on the country’s growth and development path. Building on quantitative modeling-based analytics, existing research and country diagnostics, and stakeholder consultations, the CCDR examines four sectors – Energy, Water, Transport and Solid Waste – as key pillars of a climate-responsive recovery. The report identifies policy actions and investments needed under two macroeconomic scenarios: a business-as-usual muddling through scenario which assumes continued stalling reforms, a tight fiscal space and shortage of private sector financing; and a reforms-based recovery scenario which assumes that macro-fiscal reforms will be adopted that will gradually ease financing constraints and increase fiscal space.
Lebanon is among the countries least prepared to face climate change, ranking second to Yemen in the MENA region and in the 161st position out of 192 countries globally in climate change readiness. At the root of this vulnerability is the country’s limited adaptive capacity, which has been further exacerbated by the ongoing economic and financial crisis. The latter has severely weakened Lebanon’s human, natural, and physical capital. It has also drastically compromised public finances, impeding the capacity to invest in mitigation measures and to prevent deterioration in public services in sectors like energy and solid waste and wastewater management thus accelerating environmental degradation.
Climate change in Lebanon will result in more frequent extreme weather events. Climate shocks are projected to affect Lebanon’s GDP and fiscal balance, and to increase the debt-to-GDP ratio. Overall, the climate change impacts covered in the CCDR are projected to reduce Lebanon’s growth potential by up to 2% annually by 2040 and impede service provision, especially in water. Climate change is projected to decrease water availability by up to 9% by 2040 (up to 50% during the dry season) and induce significant losses in key recovery-driving sectors, particularly agriculture and tourism with yearly losses projected to reach respectively up to US$250 million and US$75 million, threatening the livelihoods of a large portion of the population.
“Climate change poses a real threat to any country’s development prospects. Lebanon is no exception: the cost of inaction today will be too high for future generations,” said Jean-Christophe Carret, World Bank Middle East Country Director."Given the limited fiscal space, institutional and development challenges, Lebanon needs to prioritize and sequence recommended measures and interventions in the energy, water, transport and solid waste sectors, reflecting their urgency, synergies, and trade-offs in responding to development and climate needs.”
According to the report, decarbonizing Lebanon’s power sector offers a triple dividend: reducing economic costs by 41%, lowering emissions by 43% and improving macro-fiscal outcomes through lower fuel imports. Expanding renewable energy will not only reduce costs and meet growing demand but will also slow emissions generation and create more job opportunities. In the water sector, building climate-adaptive capacity is essential to increase water security through additional storage capacity, increased water use efficiency, and restoring resilient water services. Beyond the power and water sectors, promoting electrification of public transport and improving solid waste management present opportunities to advance the development and climate agendas simultaneously.
Increasing Lebanon’s capacity to adapt to climate shocks depends on how quickly it recovers from its current crisis and invests in adaptation measures, especially in the water, agricultural, tourism, and transport sectors. The Lebanon CCDR assesses the impact of an urgent financing envelope of U$770 million that responds, in the short term (2024-26), and under any scenario, to partial yet critical needs in the four sectors. Macroeconomic modeling of the impacts of the priority investment package showed that it would not place debt on an unsustainable footing. Mobilizing private sector financing can help enhance the fiscal and debt dynamics reducing the government’s share of total investment spending.
In the longer term, the CCDR also estimates that Lebanon will need to invest approximately US$7.6 billion between 2024 and 2030 in the four key sectors covered in the report to align its recovery with cost-effective climate action. The capital-intensive energy sector alone would require approximately US$4 billion in investment to diversify the generation mix toward cleaner, affordable renewable energy sources and to switch from liquid fuel to natural gas.
The report also underscores the important of empowering Lebanon’s private sector, improving governance, and adopting a whole-of-society approach to climate change as critical elements for Lebanon’s green recovery.
World Bank Group Country Climate and Development Reports: The World Bank Group’s Country Climate and Development Reports (CCDRs) are new core diagnostic reports that integrate climate change and development considerations. They will help countries prioritize the most impactful actions to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and boost adaptation while delivering on broader development goals. CCDRs build on data and rigorous research and identify main pathways to reduce GHG emissions and climate vulnerabilities, including the costs and challenges as well as benefits and opportunities from doing so. The reports suggest concrete, priority actions to support the low-carbon, resilient transition. As public documents, CCDRs aim to inform governments, citizens, the private sector, and development partners and enable engagements with the development and climate agenda. CCDRs will feed into other core Bank Group diagnostics, country engagements, and operations to help attract funding and direct financing for high-impact climate action.

In Washington  Ashraf Al-Saeed
aalsaeed@worldbank.org
In Beirut  Zeina El Khalil
zelkhalil@worldbank.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/263420-critical-investments-key-sectors-can-help-lebanon-mitigate-climate-change-impact-growth-and




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: Invest in Women to accelerate progress
Content: 08 March 2024
Beirut, Lebanon- 8 March 2024 – International Women's Day (United Nations) – Today on 8 March, International Women’s Day, the United Nations rallies behind the call to “Invest in women: Accelerate progress”, aligned with the priority theme for the upcoming 68th Commission on the Status of Women CSW68.
The world today is at a crucial crossroad for gender equality. With increasing conflicts, climate change and polarizing societies, standing up for women’s rights is more important than ever. From Gaza to Ukraine, Sudan or Afghanistan, the number of women and girls living in conflict-affected places currently amounts to over 614 million.[1]The number of women living in conflict-affected settings has increased by 50% since 2017.[2]
In Lebanon, since 8 October 2023, the spillover effects of the exchange of fire at the southern border has led to killing and injuring of civilians, including women, children, and media personnel and the internal displacement of over 91,288 residents[3] until 29 February 2024.
According UN Women’s Gender Alert on the conflict in South Lebanon, the conflict is having a variety of effects on the lives of women and girls. These include socioeconomic hardship, emotional distress, safety concerns and frustrations with inadequate support systems. Despite many challenges, women’s rights organizations are getting involved, and local women are contributing by providing essential assistance and participating in local emergency coordination and planning.
On International Women's Day 2024, through the #InvestInWomen #الاستثمار-في-المرأة campaign, the United Nations in Lebanon is putting a spotlight on the situation of women and girls across Lebanon.
The communications campaign coordinated by UN Women, kicks off on 8 March, with social media assets and a video on the social media platforms of the UN agencies in Lebanon.
“Investing in women and girls means offering them equal rights and opportunities to develop their full potential and the space to use this in the service of the country.  Lebanon cannot build a better and stable future without the full contribution of its women in all fields and sectors,” said UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Joanna Wronecka.
“Investing in women is not just a moral imperative but a strategic investment towards a more equitable and resilient society. In the face of adversity, women in Lebanon and around the world are demonstrating incredible strength and leadership. Their contributions, especially in crisis management and community support, are pivotal. Today, we reaffirm our commitment to support and invest in women to accelerate progress towards gender equality,” said Imran Riza, the United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon.
UN Women Lebanon's Representative, Gielan Elmessiri said “In south Lebanon, women are engaged in crisis management, registering with relief organizations, and addressing the specific needs of the displaced, while working with the municipalities to find available shelter”.
In 1975, during International Women’s Year, the United Nations began celebrating International Women’s Day on 8 March, which is now celebrated in many countries worldwide. It is a day when women are recognized for their achievements regardless of divisions, be those national, ethnic, linguistic, cultural, economic, or political.


About the United Nations
The United Nations system in Lebanon comprises 26 agencies, funds and programmes, as well as a peacekeeping mission, a political mission, and a regional commission that cover a broad spectrum of peacekeeping, political, development, human rights, and humanitarian work in Lebanon. The United Nations supports Lebanon to promote the country’s long-term peace and security, development, and human rights priorities.

[1]https://undocs.org/Home/Mobile?FinalSymbol=S%2F2023%2F725&Language=E&DeviceType=Desktop&LangRequested=False
[2]https://undocs.org/Home/Mobile?FinalSymbol=S%2F2023%2F725&Language=E&DeviceType=Desktop&LangRequested=False
[3]  https://dtm.iom.int/reports/mobility-snapshot-round-26-29-02-2024
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/262626-invest-women-accelerate-progress




Date: 06 March 2024
Title: Lebanese industries embrace resource-efficient practices with impressive results
Content: 06 March 2024

Since 2019, the MED TEST III project has aimed to address resource challenges and promote a circular economy perspective relevant to the situation for industries in Lebanon.
Implemented under the lead of UNIDO, the MED TEST III project in Lebanon, held in partnership with the Ministry of Industry (MoI) and the Ministry of Environment (MoE), and in collaboration with the Association of the Lebanese Industrialists and the Association of North Metn Industrialists, has unveiled remarkable results from pilot projects that promoted the uptake of resource-efficient production practices. The project emphasized the importance of integrating circular economy principles into industrial operations.
The project has targeted sectors vital to Lebanon's economy, namely the food and beverages and  chemicals sectors and covered complementing sectors from the value chain like the plastic, and printing sectors. The project conducted industry demonstrations to identify and implement resource efficiency measures. These measures, ranging from water and energy savings to material efficiency, hold the potential to significantly reduce the environmental impact while yielding considerable economic benefits, including annual savings in production costs of around  €3.4 million.
“The SwitchMed program in Lebanon has supported industries from various sectors, identifying over 250 resource efficient and cleaner production measures that, when implemented, will enable the companies to achieve economic savings of approximately 5 million euros with a payback period of about 1.4 years”.
“UNIDO, with our partners, will continue to support the resilience of the industrial sector and contribute to Lebanon’s economic recovery through such initiatives that will further mainstream sustainable and circular business models, to create a more sustainable and inclusive development” Mr. Emmanuel Kalenzi, UNIDO Representative to Lebanon, Jordan and Syria.
“Our project has been instrumental in promoting resource efficiency and cleaner production, as a strategy for companies to reduce consumption of energy, water, and raw materials, ultimately aiming to achieve more, with less. Indeed, the capacity to make better use of limited resources, including financial resources, is key for achieving long-term resilience within the industry.
The European Union reaffirms its commitment to promoting sustainability principles. However, our support can only achieve its intended objectives if it is backed by the implementation of economic reforms and the proper enforcement of existing environmental legislation by the Government and local authorities.” EU Representative, Ms. Alessia Squarcella, Deputy Head of Cooperation at EU Delegation to Lebanon
“The Association of Industrialists always seeks what benefits the industry, especially and the Lebanese economy in general, through participation in such programs and companies with international organizations. Here, we extend our gratitude to the European Union for funding this program and several others that contribute to the development of the industry and the promotion of the green economy." - Mr. Ibrahim Mallah, Lebanese Industrialists Association
“The MED TEST project is one of the international projects that has contributed to raising awareness among industrialists and environmental experts about the importance of clean and eco-friendly industries through practical experiments, especially in terms of reducing operating costs, reducing the quantity of raw materials used, and improving the production process. This project is what industrialists currently need in light of the economic crisis facing the country.” Mr. Bassam Sabbagh, Representing H.E. the Minister of Environment
"Leading the SwitchMed program, and its subsequent expansion through the 2Circular project funded by the European Union, are priorities of the Ministry of Industry as they support sustainable industrial development and enhance the competitive capacity and resilience of a key industrial sector by promoting the adoption of resource-efficient practices and cleaner production in industrial companies, thus promoting the transition of the industry to circular business models in Lebanon." - Mrs. Chantal Akel, Acting Director-General of the Ministry of Industry
In addition, the MED TEST III project has catalyzed innovative solutions in the dairy sector through a whey valorization initiative. This initiative collaborated with industry partners and academia, resulting in the development of three new whey-based products that offer cost-effective alternatives for Lebanese dairy companies. The success of these initiatives fosters sustainability within the industry and stimulates market innovation and competitiveness.


For media inquiries, please contact:
Name: Ms. Nada Sabra, National Coordinator UNIDO
Email: n.sabra@unido.org
Phone: +961 3 736967
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/263002-lebanese-industries-embrace-resource-efficient-practices-impressive-results




Date: 28 February 2024
Title: United Nations Lebanon Launches New Campaign to Showcase Support for Lebanese  Across Various Sectors
Content: 28 February 2024
As the country continues to navigate serious challenges, the #All4Lebanon campaign underscores the United Nations' steadfast commitment to assisting and standing by the Lebanese people by providing vital aid to meet the urgent needs of the most vulnerable groups and ensuring that no one is left behind.  Over the past few years, the UN, through its various agencies, funds, programmes, and missions, has increased its support to Lebanese nationals, Syrian refugees, migrants and Palestine refugees in an effort to mitigate the impact of the compounded crises that hit Lebanon.
From institutional interventions aimed at strengthening governance and supporting public institutions to community-driven projects that foster social cohesion and well-being and support rural development, the campaign showcases the United Nations and partners’ active engagement in supporting the country to overcome its multi-faceted crisis and address the basic needs of its people across various sectors.
Through different communication products and mediums, and for over two months, the campaign will shed light on the UN’s efforts with its partners to support Lebanon in areas such as healthcare, food security, education, economic development, employment, women empowerment, and the environment, and will help debunk common myths on the UN’s support in Lebanon.
Commenting on the campaign, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Lebanon, Mr. Imran Riza said “The #All4Lebanon campaign embodies the UN’s pledge to the Lebanese people, showcasing our collective efforts and steady commitment to support the Government of Lebanon to not only address the immediate needs of the people but also to work hand in hand with communities and local authorities to ensure Lebanon’s sustainable recovery and prosperity.”
Through this campaign and other communication initiatives, the United Nations aims to reach a wide audience and engage with communities across Lebanon to help advocate for human rights, peace and security, and prosperity. You can watch the campaign’s launch video on this link in both English and Arabic and follow the remainder of this campaign on UN Lebanon's social media platforms mentioned below.

*****
The United Nations system in Lebanon comprises 26 agencies, funds, and programmes, as well as a peacekeeping mission, a political mission, and a regional commission that covers a broad spectrum of peacekeeping, political, development, human rights, and humanitarian work in Lebanon. The United Nations supports Lebanon to promote the country’s long-term peace and security, development, and human rights priorities.
For more information about the United Nations in Lebanon and its work, visit lebanon.un.org  or follow us on X, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/261827-united-nations-lebanon-launches-new-campaign-showcase-support-lebanese-across-various




Date: 27 February 2024
Title: Special Coordinator Urges De-escalation and Steps Towards Longer-Term Solutions
Content: 27 February 2024
Regretting the impact of the fighting on civilian lives and property and the displacement of thousands of border residents, the Special Coordinator reiterated the urgent need to adhere to international humanitarian law and to the protection of civilians at all times.

In exercise of her good offices, the Special Coordinator has intensified her engagement with all stakeholders towards urgent steps for de-escalation. She has also encouraged concerted efforts by international partners to help the parties find sustainable solutions that enhance security and stability along the Blue Line.

The Special Coordinator remains committed to supporting a political process towards a permanent ceasefire and long-term solution to the conflict as envisaged in resolution 1701.
- ENDS-

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/261832-special-coordinator-urges-de-escalation-and-steps-towards-longer-term-solutions




Date: 27 February 2024
Title: UN-Habitat initiates rehabilitation of four residential heritage buildings under BERYT project
Content: 27 February 2024
The housing recovery and rehabilitation component of the BERYT project is centred on restoring the liveability, safety and architectural heritage of several residential buildings within a 5km radius of the epicentre of the Beirut Port explosion.

The four buildings undergoing rehabilitation are namely buildings 679, 694, 710, and 425 in Rmeil. They are among a list of buildings that have been assessed and are under design. To preserve their historical identity, the original architectural designs of these buildings are being used as a reference. Furthermore, rehabilitation works will use construction materials and techniques that seek to restore the buildings’ original character.

The residential buildings to undergo rehabilitation were selected based on an extensive multifaceted selection process. The process assesses the level of structural damage and heritage value; the housing, land and property ownership status; and future usage plans of owners once the building is rehabilitated. The selection also takes into consideration the socioeconomic vulnerabilities of the building residents and households.


Under the project, 15 additional buildings are expected to be contracted for renovation until June 2025. These buildings are undergoing final verifications and assessments and will be announced in due course.

Through the rehabilitation of these buildings, BERYT aims to bring people who are still displaced, back home, improve the quality and affordability of Beirut’s heritage housing stock, lay the foundation for longer term housing reform and recovery, and propose tangible solutions to the complex housing, land and property landscape in the city, while reviving the urban cultural and social vibrancy of Beirut.
-ENDS-

About the Beirut Housing Rehabilitation and Cultural and Creative Industries Recovery – the BERYT Project
The Beirut Housing Rehabilitation and Cultural and Creative Industries Recovery Project, BERYT, is a two-component project led by UN-Habitat and funded by the Lebanon Financing Facility (LFF) a multi-donor trust fund administered by the World Bank. The BERYT project will rehabilitate severely damaged residential buildings of heritage value and provide grants to creative and cultural actors in the areas most heavily affected by the Port of Beirut blast, while promoting an urban recovery approach. UN-Habitat oversees the implementation of the housing recovery and rehabilitation activities, while UNESCO oversees the implementation of the cultural and creative industries revitalization component of the project.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

About the Lebanon Financing Facility (LFF)
The Lebanon Financing Facility (LFF) is a multi-donor trust fund administered by the World Bank to kickstart the immediate socio-economic recovery of vulnerable populations and businesses affected by the Port of Beirut explosion of August 2020 and to support the Government of Lebanon catalyze reforms and prepare for medium-term recovery and reconstruction. The LFF is kindly supported by the governments of Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Norway and by the European Union.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/261830-un-habitat-initiates-rehabilitation-four-residential-heritage-buildings-under-beryt-project




Date: 20 February 2024
Title: ILO report: High unemployment rates to worsen despite optimistic economic outlook in  Arab States
Content: 20 February 2024
The region's unemployment rate is expected to remain high at 9.8 per cent in 2024, above pre-pandemic levels, reflecting various factors that affect the region's labour markets such as segmentation, political instability, conflict, economic crises, a weak private sector and demographic pressures, a new report published by the ILO Regional Office for Arab States has found.
The report, titled “Arab States Employment and Social Outlook - Trends 2024: Promoting social justice through a just transition,” also projects that GDP in the region is expected to grow by 3.5 per cent in 2024, with faster growth in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries than in non-GCC countries (3.7 per cent versus 2.6 per cent).
Yet post-pandemic labour market recovery is lagging behind economic recovery, and decent jobs for the growing workforce remain scarce, maintains the report. In the GCC, there is a segmentation between nationals and migrants, and between public and private sectors. In the non-GCC states, there are issues of instability, conflict, crisis, a weak private sector and demographic pressures. In 2023, the ILO estimated that 17.5 million people in the region wanted to work but could not find a job, resulting in a jobs gap rate of 23.7 per cent.
“As the world marks World Day of Social Justice, we launch this analysis of employment and labour market trends in the region and identify ways to promote decent work and social justice in our region, especially through addressing inequalities and protecting workers,” said ILO Regional Director for Arab States Ruba Jaradat.
“The labour market situation in the Arab States is complex and needs urgent action. We hope this report can help identify solutions to promote not only thriving and fair labour markets, but also peace and stability across our region,” Jaradat said.
With Arab States facing the dual challenge of boosting economic growth and creating more decent jobs for their growing labour force, the report identified a need to intensify attempts to diversify the economy, especially in oil-producing countries exposed to oil price fluctuations, and to create jobs in more resilient sectors, especially in countries affected by conflict and instability.
The report noted that many employment challenges in the region are rooted in the struggle of economies to generate enough high-quality jobs for those seeking employment. Consequently, more than half of the workers are in informal and insecure jobs, without social protection or other benefits. Working poverty affected 7.1 million workers, or 12.6 per cent of the total employment, in 2023. There are also significant challenges on the supply side. Inadequate education and skills development systems have resulted in a mismatch between the skills employers need and those that workers can offer. This has contributed to the region’s high unemployment rates, even among those with higher education levels. Women, youth and migrant workers remain particularly disadvantaged in the labour market.
The report also spotlighted the region’s refugee crises, which pose significant challenges to labour markets. While Syria is the largest source of refugees in the world, Lebanon and Jordan are major recipients, hosting the highest numbers of refugees per capita in the world. Refugees face difficulties finding jobs in their host countries, where they compete with locals for work, many resorting to working informally.
Equally concerning is the upsurge in internal displacement arising from conflict, violence and natural disasters. Syria, Yemen, Iraq and the Occupied Palestinian Territory face significant internal displacement crises, imposing tremendous strains on their resources and infrastructure.
The region also faces both the challenges and opportunities of environmental and climate change. The report found that, with the right green policies, the region could increase its GDP by US$200 billion and create 2 million more jobs by 2050. However, this requires implementing appropriate policies and measures to ensure a just transition that supports all affected individuals and leaves no one behind.
“Promoting decent work, including in the green economy, plays a central role in advancing social justice, eliminating discrimination and ensuring that no one, irrespective of their age, sex, nationality or religion, is left behind,” said ILO Senior Employment Policy Specialist and Head of the Regional Economic and Social Analysis Unit, Tariq Haq, who led development of the report. “Concerted efforts and integrated measures need to consider both the supply and demand sides of the labour market, as well as the intermediation between them, and the report presents a set of policy recommendations to achieve this,” Haq said.
The recommendations include designing and implementing pro-employment and inclusive macroeconomic and sectoral policies, enabling factors for manufacturing and higher value-added services growth, improving the skills and education system and promoting lifelong learning. Further recommendations pertain to promoting the transition from the informal to the formal economy, bridging the gender gap, improving labour market information, addressing inequalities and protecting workers’ rights. The report also proposes an array of specific measures to encourage a just transition.
-Ends-
The International Labour Organization is the United Nations agency for the world of work. We bring together governments, employers and workers to drive a human-centered approach to the future of work through employment creation, rights at work, social protection and social dialogue.
For further information and interview requests, please contact Salwa Kanaana kanaana@ilo.org and Layal Abou Antoun abouantoun@ilo.or
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/261337-ilo-report-high-unemployment-rates-worsen-despite-optimistic-economic-outlook-arab-states




Date: 20 February 2024
Title: UN-Habitat and Ministry of Social Affairs launch road maps toward socioeconomic development with ten unions of municipalities
Content: 20 February 2024
The event took place in the presence of the United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Imran Riza; Head of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation in Beirut, Alessandra Piermattei, in addition to representatives from embassies, ministries, unions of municipalities and municipalities, civil society organisations and UN agencies.
The "Improving planning capacities for social and economic local development” project worked with unions of municipalities to strengthen their planning capacities in socioeconomic development while fostering collaboration between social development centres affiliated to the Ministry of Social Affairs, local authorities, and civil society organizations. At the start of the project, 60 unions of municipalities were contacted to participate, of which 38 expressed interest.
“We believe in the importance of cooperation and networking at the local level between local administrations, represented by municipalities, social development centres, and civil society. Therefore, you will find us working to improve the ministry’s centres and provide them with services and human and practical capabilities to be the spearhead in directing the development process and implementing it professionally, and providing a package of services that eases the burden on citizen” said H.E. Dr. Hector Al-Hajjar, Lebanese Minister of Social Affairs.
Of the 38, 10 unions of municipalities were selected based on various criteria to work with UN-Habitat and the Ministry of Social Affairs in identifying their evolving multisectoral territorial needs and priorities, to develop recommendations that could shape the preparation of socioeconomic action plans for their respective areas.
“The collaboration between the Unions of Municipalities and the Social Development Centres of the Ministry of Social Affairs with the active involvement of the local stakeholders in the process of analyzing the resources and the challenges of the territory to develop the 10 Road maps was challenging but useful towards optimization of resources and reduction of duplication of interventions. We consider that dialogue is relevant for sustainable and holistic local development. We look forward to see concrete actions undertaken towards constructive initiatives in the 10 Union of Municipalities supported by AICS and other donors”, Alessandra Piermattei, Head of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation – AICS in Beirut said.
These efforts culminated in the creation of a series of booklets that feature data and analysis on the current conditions of their specific union, upon which, context-specific road maps were created that can guide the development of socioeconomic action plans for each. Providing a baseline for local and national decision-makers to build upon to implement projects and policies in their communities.
The ten unions of municipalities and their respective booklets are: Joumeh – Akkar; Iqlim El-Kharoub El-Chamali – Mount Lebanon; Jezzine – South;  Chamal Baalbek – Baalbek; Chouf El-Souayjani – Mount Lebanon;  Jord El-Qaytaa – Akkar; Caza Zgharta – North; Jord El-Aala–Bhamdoun – Mount Lebanon; Iqlim El-Tuffah – Nabatiyeh; and, Qalaat El-Istiqlal – Bekaa.
“When working towards local socio-economic development, we must look beyond mere numbers and plans. Our focus should be on empowering communities, investing in their human capital, enhancing their infrastructure, and unlocking their agricultural and tourism potential. It's about fostering sustainable, locally-driven solutions, rooted in the knowledge and expertise of local communities. These solutions can offer valuable insights and best practices, paving the way for future reforms that embrace a bottom-up and people-centered approach,” said Mr. Imran Riza, United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon.
The event included presentations of the booklets’ key findings by the unions of municipalities, highlighting challenges, recommendations, and strategic directions for socioeconomic development.
“Lebanon continues to grapple with an unprecedented socioeconomic crisis, which has left local authorities struggling to cope. They are at the forefront in responding to the ever-increasing needs of the communities they serve, with limited or no resources to do so due to the country’s severe liquidity crisis. Despite this, UN-Habitat hopes that these booklets can serve as an evidence-based guide for the ten unions that were selected for this project, to work with potential future partners to implement the recommend actions with the hope of improving the socioeconomic conditions of their cities and towns,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.
About the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS)
The Italian Agency for Development Cooperation - AICS, is the Public Agency responsible for promoting international Development, providing Public Aid and Humanitarian Emergencies. AICS is operative since January 2016, supporting the Italian government, its European and international partners in promoting Development around the world. The Italian Agency is active in the fields of health, education, and environment, and works for a fair distribution of wealth and equal access to infrastructure and basic services. AICS collaborates with non-governmental organizations, state institutions and the private sector.

For media enquiries:
Lubna Elmahdy
UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
E: lubna.elmahdy1@un.org

Samar Maalouf
Ministry of Social Affairs
T: 03186032
E: samarmlf@gmail.com

Jean Claude Mbede Fouda
Italian Agency for Development Cooperation
T: +961 5 951376/377/378 – ext. 209
E: jeanclaude.mbedefouda@aics.gov.it


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/261264-un-habitat-and-ministry-social-affairs-launch-road-maps-toward-socioeconomic-development-ten




Date: 15 February 2024
Title: Media Quote by UN Humanitarian Coordinator about Increase of Civilian Casualties in South Lebanon
Content: 15 February 2024

-END-
For more information, please contact the office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon:
Ms. Kristen Knutson, Head of Office - OCHA. E-mail: Knutson@un.org
Ms. Kawsar Fahs, Senior Communications Officer – OCHA. E-mail: Kawsar.fahs@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/260792-media-quote-un-humanitarian-coordinator-about-increase-civilian-casualties-south-lebanon




Date: 14 February 2024
Title: UNOPS launches the second round of Call for Proposals in Lebanon
Content: 14 February 2024

The two Call for Proposals documents are available in English. Applications should be submitted in English.
The interventions in the Karantina & Jesuit gardens, funded by the German government through KfW Development Bank,  will focus on the operational management of the sites, such as the provision of cleaning and maintenance-related services, and implementation of community activities, such as neighborhood markets, art exhibitions, workshops, etc, in coordination with the Municipality of Beirut.
Applicants can submit proposals as a consortium or individually.
Organizations that have gender equality practices in place with specialized knowledge, expertise, and a track record of working on community-based activities and maintenance of public spaces, women’s rights organizations, women-led organizations, and grassroot women’s organizations are encouraged to apply.
The application is open from 10 February - 8 March 2024 12:00 a.m  (GMT +2).
All applications can be submitted through one of the below options:
UNOPS Address is: Qubic Business Building; Daoud Ammoun Street; Sin El Fil, Mount Lebanon.
Pre-submission meetings will be held on 19 February, 2024 virtually to provide guidance to potential applicants in the application process and answer any questions needed.
Link to pre-submission meetings can be find below:
Check out on the link provided the Karantina Garden Call for Proposals (PDF): English
Check out on the link provided the Jesuit Garden Call for Proposals (PDF): English
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/260613-unops-launches-second-round-call-proposals-lebanon




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: The Government of Lebanon Launches its First National Social Protection Strategy
Content: 13 February 2024

The strategy is the result of extensive efforts initiated in 2019 by Lebanon’s Inter-Ministerial Committee on Social Policy, led by the Ministry of Social Affairs, with funding from the European Union and the Government of the Netherlands and technical support from the ILO and UNICEF.
In his speech, Prime Minister Najib Mikati commended “the efforts made by international organizations in Lebanon in this strategy in cooperation and coordination with the Ministry of Social Affairs and various official Lebanese bodies,” and said: “In light of the current circumstances that Lebanon is going through, politically, security-wise, and economically, talking about a strategy for social protection seems unrealistic at first, but, these challenging situations require us to develop exceptional solutions to protect marginalized social groups and to preserve the middle class, which constitutes the actual balance within society, and to secure job opportunities for a larger number of people, thus helping the state in reducing the burden of social protection.”
The strategy serves as a comprehensive long-term vision focusing on five pillars: 1) social assistance, 2) social insurance, 3) social welfare, 4) employment opportunities for the most vulnerable, and 5) financial support for access to education and health. At its heart are key reforms, such as a more inclusive pension scheme for private sector workers, income security for older persons and improved medical coverage for persons with disabilities. Additionally, the strategy offers a platform for coordination among government and non-government stakeholders to work together on core social policy priorities in the country.
"We meet today, in light of this huge number of old challenges and crises, current and emerging, to announce the unique birth, for the first time in Lebanon, of the National Strategy for Social Protection" said the minister of social affairs Hector Hajjar. "We are in dire need of changing the already eroded pattern of social service delivery and shifting to a comprehensive social protection system based on human rights approaches, and moving from the concept of the recipient citizen who is waiting for support only, to the productive and proactive citizen as a partner in strengthening the pillars of social protection". He added "the Ministry of Social Affairs, through its leadership of this file, is keen and open to all ministries and initiatives, given our belief that the social protection strategy lies within the responsibility of the Lebanese state and not only the responsibilities of the Ministry of Social Affairs". He concluded by saying "to our international partners, we say: The lesson remains in funding as we do not aspire to establish a strategic project that remains legitimate unless it is provided with the necessary funding and unless the suffering of the Lebanese state is taken into account in securing social protection for its citizens, as well as refugees and displaced people".
The Ambassador of the European Union to Lebanon Sandra De Waele welcomed the adoption of the strategy “as a much-needed tool to move away from ad-hoc crisis management measures and towards long-term sustainable policies and solutions”. She added, “I positively note the Government’s allocation of financial resources to both the National Poverty Targeting Programme and the National Disability Allowance. But more needs to be done to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of social protection measures. We are now counting on the government to take ownership of the implementation of the strategy.”
Hans Peter van der Woude, Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to Lebanon, said: “The Netherlands welcomes the recent launch of the National Social Protection Strategy and are proud that through the Prospects-partnership and our partners ILO and UNICEF we can contribute to this milestone alongside the EU. Together we remain committed to inclusive, transparent, and reform-intended solutions benefitting those most needed in Lebanon.”
“The development, adoption and soon the implementation of the strategy represent a critical shift in social policy making among Lebanese decision makers, moving away from fragmented silos to a coordinated, cross-sectoral approach to social protection, which is an inalienable right to every citizen” said UN Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Lebanon Imran Riza.
ILO Regional Director for Arab States Ruba Jaradat reaffirmed the organization's commitment to supporting Lebanon in implementing the strategy. "In these difficult times of crisis, preserving Lebanon's human capital requires an ambitious and comprehensive plan for reform, which this strategy provides”, Jaradat said. “In fact, this strategy sets the stage for a new social contract between the government and the Lebanese people. We are ready to assist the Government of Lebanon in transforming this strategy into a reality with the financial support of the European Union and the Government of the Netherlands, and in partnership with UNICEF".
“We congratulate the Government of Lebanon and the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs for its commitment to finalizing the National Social Protection Strategy,” said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. “This milestone represents a significant step towards a more equitable and resilient national system. In partnership with ILO, and with the generous funding of the European Union and the Government of Netherlands, we are committed to support the government in its implementation to pave the way for a more robust and just social protection system that supports every citizen across their lifecycle in an inclusive and dignified manner.”
Relevant ministries, UN agencies, civil society organizations, including Organizations of People with Disabilities (OPDs), experts, and development partners, worked closely together to make this strategy a reality. Plans now need to be in place to ensure its proper implementation and to monitor and evaluate its progress.


END


Maya Outayek
Communication Officer – Media Relation
United Nations Children’s Fund | Beirut – Lebanon
Office: +961 1607538| Mobile: 961 70 190 634
http://www.unicef.org/lebanon/
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/260616-government-lebanon-launches-its-first-national-social-protection-strategy




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: Italian Government funds the rehabilitation and solarization of 13 public schools in Lebanon
Content: 13 February 2024
With funding from Italy, UNICEF has conducted major rehabilitation and solarization works in 7 public schools across the country, so students now attend classes in improved and safer facilities. 6 additional schools are currently under rehabilitation with Italy’s support.
The Director General of Education, Mr. Imad Al-Ashqar, thanked the Italian Cooperation Agency and UNICEF for the support provided to public schools, “amid the compounded crisis Lebanon is suffering from weighing heavily on the society and on the education sector.” He called on the Agency “to continue its much-needed support to formal education” and acclaimed “the quality of the rehabilitation work, which turns the school into a brighter and better learning environment”.
“Since 2017, AICS intervention focused on 4 main pillars aiming at Schools rehabilitation, education and protection, promoting TVET and supporting school feeding (nutrition), for a global investment of around 58 million of euro", said Mr. Marco Riccardo Rusconi, Director General of the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation - AICS, during his visit in Lebanon. “Furthermore, during the 2021, the Ministry of Education launched the 5 years plan which sets out key pillars of Lebanon’s vision for General Education with a focus on access, quality, and governance. AICS is underpinning this plan, especially improving access and quality, through the school refurbishment and the inclusive education programs together with outstanding partners like UNICEF and the Italian NGOs” he added.
The rehabilitation works will transform these schools into more friendly spaces for children with disabilities, by installing ramps across the facilities and making bathrooms more accessible.
“Rehabilitation makes a big difference to the schools and positively affects the children and the teachers. These schools are now improving the health and safety of children, thus improving attendance rates” said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. “Italy is a long-standing partner of UNICEF and we are grateful for this partnership”.
Each school will also be assessed to receive, where possible, an energy-saving system including photovoltaic cells and solar panels complementing the public infrastructure in Lebanon. The measures will help reduce the cost of electricity in the long term and contribute to the power supply of schools throughout the scholastic year.

END

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone
For more information please contact
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unief.org +96170190634
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/260559-italian-government-funds-rehabilitation-and-solarization-13-public-schools-lebanon




Date: 13 February 2024
Title: Nature is staging a comeback: UN recognizes seven World Restoration Flagships including in Lebanon
Content: 13 February 2024
Initiatives in Africa, Latin America, the Mediterranean and Southeast Asia cited as best practices for reversing ecosystems degradation
The World Restoration Flagship awards are part of the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration – led by UNEP and FAO – which aims to prevent, halt, and reverse the degradation of ecosystems on every continent and in every ocean. The awards track notable initiatives that support global commitments to restore one billion hectares – an area larger than China.
The winning initiatives are announced ahead of the 6th session of the UN Environment Assembly (UNEA-6), the world’s highest-level decision-making body for matters related to the environment, taking place from February 26 – March 1 at UNEP headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya. Together, the seven new flagships are expected to restore nearly 40 million hectares − an area almost 600 times the size of Nairobi − and create around 500,000 jobs.
FAO Director-General QU Dongyu said: ”FAO is pleased to recognize these seven worthy champions, proving that we can offer the leading examples to reverse ecosystem degradation at scale, while also addressing the impacts of the climate crisis and biodiversity loss. Restoring terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems is a crucial step in the transformation of global agrifood systems to be more efficient, inclusive, resilient and sustainable. Ecosystem restoration is long term solution in the fight to eradicate poverty, hunger and malnutrition, as we face population growth and increased need for foods and ecosystem goods and services.”
The World Restoration Flagships are chosen as the best examples of ongoing, large-scale and long-term ecosystem restoration by the Task Forces for Science and Best Practices of the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration and approved by its Executive Board. Selection follows a thorough review process with over 60 indicators and criteria, embodying the 10 Restoration Principles of the UN Decade.
“For too long, economic development came at the expense of the environment. Yet today we see global efforts to usher in a comeback for nature,” Inger Andersen, Executive Director of UNEP, said. “These initiatives show how we can make peace with nature, put local communities at the heart of restoration efforts and still create new jobs. As we continue to face a triple planetary crisis of climate change, nature and biodiversity loss, and pollution and waste, now is the time we must double down and accelerate restoration initiatives.”
In 2022, the inaugural ten World Restoration Flagships were recognized as part of the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, to be followed with similar efforts every two years until 2030. This year’s World Restoration Flagships are part of an accelerated investment in nature by governments and private donors, notably reflected in USD 1.4 billion provided last year by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Council.
Jason Momoa, actor and UNEP Advocate for Life Below Water: "Conserving nature is crucial, but it's not cutting it anymore. We've lost too much of our planet, and it's time to step up and rebuild what we messed up, fix what we broke, and restore what we trashed. These restoration initiatives are like the exciting answers to the big questions our connection to the natural world raises – just like the best movies do."
Each of the seven World Restoration Flagships is being announced in video messages shared on UN social media channels by a UN or UNEP Goodwill Ambassador or Advocate, including actors Dia Mirza, Jason Momoa, and Edward Norton, chef Leyla Fathallah, and super-model and best-selling author Gisele Bündchen.
From Fires to Forests – Resilience in the Mediterranean
The Mediterranean basin is the world’s second largest biodiversity hotspot, but 16 per cent of its forest species are threatened with extinction, in part due to climate-driven longer drought periods, extreme heat waves and wildfires. In the past decade, the region has experienced the worst fire seasons on record.
The Restoring Mediterranean Forests Initiative involving Lebanon, Morocco, Tunisia and Türkiye consists of a novel approach to protecting and restoring these natural habitats and vulnerable ecosystems and has led to around two million hectares of forests restored across the region since 2017, with over eight million hectares planned for restoration by 2030.
The initiative is supported by FAO’s Committee on Mediterranean Forestry Questions – Silva Mediterranea, the governments of Lebanon, Morocco, Tunisia, and Türkiye, and The Association for Forests, Development and Conservation Lebanon (AFDC).
Living Indus – Restoring a Cradle of Civilizations
The 3,180 km long Indus River has served as the vibrant core of the social, cultural, and economic life of what is today called Pakistan for well over 5,000 years. Some 90 per cent of Pakistan’s people and more than three-quarters of its economy reside in the Indus Basin, and it irrigates over 80 percent of its arable land. Negligence, environmental degradation, and climate change have threatened the river’s ecosystem, including its abundant fish and fertile lands.
The Living Indus initiative was approved by Pakistan’s parliament in the wake of the devastating 2022 climate-change induced floods and was officially launched at the UN Climate Change Conference in Sharm el-Sheikh (COP27). It aims to restore 25 million hectares of river basin by 2030, encompassing 30 per cent of Pakistan’s surface area through the implementation of 25 high-impact interventions for policymakers, practitioners and civil society. The initiative designates the Indus River as a living entity with rights – a measure taken to protect rivers elsewhere, including in Australia, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Ecuador, India, New Zealand, Peru, and Sri Lanka.
Partners in this initiative include the Government of Pakistan, FAO and other UN agencies.
Acción Andina: Saving a global water and climate hotspot
The Acción Andina social movement is led by Peruvian conservation non- profit organisation, ECOAN (Association Ecosistemas Andinos). It is scaling up a community reforestation model, which has proved itself over the past two decades as a cost-effective solution for climate resilience plans to restore and grow 30 million trees by 2030 across a vegetative band spanning almost 800,000 hectares in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela.
The initiative ultimately aims to protect and restore a forest area of one million hectares. 25,000 people from remote Andean communities are already engaged in restoring 5,000 hectares and protecting over 11,000 hectares of Andean forests. They are expected to benefit from the initiative by 2030 in various ways, from access to medicine, solar panels, and clean-burning clay stoves, to improved grazing management, sustainable agriculture, microbusiness, and ecotourism management of Indigenous cultures. It also works to secure land titles for local communities, protecting the forest from future mining, timber exploitation and other drivers of degradation.
Partners in this initiative include the Asociación Ecosistemas Andinos (ECOAN) and Global Forest Generation (GFG).
Sri Lanka stopped planting mangroves and started growing them
In Sri Lanka, mangrove forests are immensely valuable coastal ecosystems that thrive at the border between land and sea and serve as an important bridge between marine and terrestrial biodiversity. The livelihoods of coastal communities in Sri Lanka are highly dependent on marine and coastal ecosystems. Nevertheless, climate change and human activities are posing threats to this unique ecosystem.
The Sri Lanka Mangrove Regeneration Initiative is science-driven, co-led by local communities, and focused on restoring the natural balance in the ecosystem. Since the initiative was launched in 2015, efforts have already resulted in 500 hectares of restored mangroves, benefiting 150 households. Some   10,000 hectares are slated for restoration by 2030, with 5,000 households to benefit and more than 4,000 new jobs to be created.
Partners in this initiative include the Sri Lanka Ministry of Environment and the governments of Australia, the UK and USA.
Terai Arc Landscape: Reviving Asia’s mega-fauna
Over seven million people depend on the Terai Arc Landscape, stretching across 5.10 million hectares and shared by India and Nepal. It is also one of the world’s most critical habitats for tigers whose numbers have sharply declined, along with those of other species such as rhinos and elephants, due to poaching, habitat loss, degradation, and human-wildlife conflict.
The Terai Arc Landscape Initiative has focused on restoring the forests of critical corridors of the Terai Arc Landscape and collaborates with local communities working as citizen scientists, community based anti-poaching units, forest guards and social mobilizers. The restoration of 66,800 hectares of Nepal’s forests, as well as other measures, has improved the livelihoods of about 500,000 households in Nepal. It also supported the tiger population in the landscape shared by India and Nepal, increased today to 1,174– more than doubling what had been its lowest number when the programme launched in 2001. Development is expected to continue as almost 350,000 hectares will be restored by 2030.
The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Nepal is the primary partner in this initiative, supporting the Nepalese government.
Regreening Africa’s agriculture
The Regreening Africa initiative has been using proven agroforestry techniques, adapted to suit the needs of farmers under varying socio-ecological contexts in the past two decades, to restore over 350,000 hectares in Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mali, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, and Somalia. By 2030, a further five million hectares are planned to be restored.
The initiative is expected to benefit more than 600,000 households. It is also increasing carbon storage, boosting crop and grass yields, makes soil more resilient (preventing floods) and treating it with fixed nitrogen that acts as a natural fertilizer.
Partners in this initiative include CARE Nederland, Catholic Relief Services, CIFOR-ICRAF, Oxfam, Regreening Africa, Sahel Eco, and World Vision Australia.
Growing forests in Africa's drylands: African farmers transforming food systems
The Forest Garden Program, launched in 2015, includes multiple Forest Garden projects in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, The Gambia, Kenya, Mali, Senegal, Uganda, and Tanzania. Through researched agroforestry techniques, unsustainable farming practices are replaced and nature regenerates, as farmers receive essential training, supplies and equipment for their success.
By planting tens of millions of trees every year, it aims at expanding from 41,000 restored hectares today to 229,000 hectares by 2030, supporting many more through 230,000 jobs created.
Partners in this initiative include Trees for the Future.

NOTES TO EDITORS
About the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration
The UN General Assembly has declared 2021–2030 a UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. Led by the UN Environment Programme and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN, together with the support of partners, it is designed to prevent, halt, and reverse the loss and degradation of ecosystems worldwide. It aims at reviving billions of hectares, covering terrestrial as well as aquatic ecosystems. A global call to action, the UN Decade draws together political support, scientific research, and financial muscle to massively scale up restoration.
About the UN World Restoration Flagships
Countries have already promised to restore 1 billion hectares – an area larger than China – as part of their commitments to the Paris climate agreement, the Aichi targets f[DDCS1] or biodiversity, the Land Degradation Neutrality targets and the Bonn Challenge. However, little is known about the progress or quality of this restoration. With the World Restoration Flagships, the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration is honouring the best examples of large-scale and long-term ecosystem restoration in any country or region, embodying the 10 Restoration Principles of the UN Decade. Progress of all World Restoration Flagships will be transparently monitored through the Framework for Ecosystem Restoration Monitoring, the UN Decade’s platform for keeping track of global restoration efforts.
FAO News and Media(+39) 06 570 53625FAO-Newsroom@fao.org
UN Environment Programmeunep-newsdesk@un.org

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/260578-nature-staging-comeback-un-recognizes-seven-world-restoration-flagships-including-lebanon




Date: 06 February 2024
Title: Japan and UNOPS support the Lebanese Armed Forces in the provision of critical healthcare services
Content: 06 February 2024
Funded by the Government of Japan, the project “Urgent Support to Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) through Enhancement of Health Services and Critical Operations” aims to enhance Lebanon’s security and stability by strengthening the operational capacity of the LAF. UNOPS will install renewable energy solutions and provide much needed medical equipment to the LAF health facilities which play a critical role in providing necessary health services amid the acute energy and security crisis in Lebanon.
Lebanese Armed Forces Commander General Joseph Auon expressed his gratitude to the People and Government of Japan for supporting the military institutions in Lebanon, saying that: “The continuous support provided by the countries and their peoples to the army is significantly important to ensure our preparedness against all odds.” He added, “this timely initiative contributes to LAF's shift to adopting renewable energy solutions in order to protect the environment and save costs.”
Japan Ambassador to Lebanon, H.E. Mr. Masayuki Magoshi, said: “The Lebanese army remained a guarantor of Lebanon’s unity and peace throughout the severe socio-economic crisis that the country has been going through. Japan believes that now more than ever local and international partners should rally behind the Lebanese army to support it in fulfilling its missions. For this reason the Japanese Government has decided to support key military medical facilities through UNOPS, with the aim of enhancing the army’s healthcare capacities and increasing the resilience of the military personnel and their families.”
UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Joanna Wronecka said that the Lebanese Armed Forces play a critical role in ensuring Lebanon’s security and stability. “The importance of a strong and well-resourced Lebanese Armed Forces as integral to the successful implementation of Resolution 1701 (2006) is further underscored by recent developments,” the Special Coordinator said.
“We appreciate this new initiative in supporting the critical role of the Lebanese Armed Forces in Lebanon, and for our continued partnership with the Government of Japan. Through this project, UNOPS aims at enhancing the operational capacity of LAF in providing essential health services” said Muhammad Usman Akram, Representative and Director of UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman.
This support will help targeted health facilities to provide the needed health services to more than 100,000 active Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) personnel, retirees, and their families. In addition, this project will indirectly benefit 400,000 LAF soldiers and their immediate families.

About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/260190-japan-and-unops-support-lebanese-armed-forces-provision-critical-healthcare-services




Date: 31 January 2024
Title: UNICEF, Beirut Governorate, and Netherlands commit to empower and protect  street and working children in Beirut
Content: 31 January 2024
Whilst the utmost goal is to support street and working children and eliminate the phenomena of the worst forms of child labour, initial investment has been set to create safe spaces for the children working on the streets to empower them with knowledge on how to protect themselves and where to go for help whilst also providing them with learning opportunities and psychosocial support that are tailored to their profile and needs. For effective and sustainable results, children’s caregivers are also provided with psychosocial support to address their own emotional distress whist supported with alternatives for positive parenting.
Governor of Beirut, Judge Marwan Abboud Said: “It is my duty and honor to be a part of this endeavor, spear-headed by UNICEF, in collaboration with the Municipality of Beirut, and public and civil organizations, to implement a plan aimed at taking care of street children and, in the background their families. This multi-faceted project, which we are supporting through the area-based taskforce, requires sustainability for its optimal fruition, which I hope we can all contribute to.”
To expand and complement the reach of the Safe Spaces, UNICEF, in partnership with the Government of the Netherlands and in consultation with the children has also set up two mobile units to ensure children working in different streets of Beirut are reached on a regular basis and supported with the same package of services which includes education, psycho-social support, sports and recreational activities. This innovative approach provides diversification in outreach strategies which are critical for reaching the most vulnerable children, including girls and children with disabilities.
Sylvia Deepen, Head of International Cooperation at the Netherlands Embassy in Lebanon said: ‘’Transforming lives and empowering dreams – Child protection is at the core of our priorities. Supporting vulnerable children, offering them hope and education requires the whole community to come together. The Netherlands is standing alongside these children through various initiatives to foster their potential and ignite change within their communities. With the support of our local and international partners we can make a real difference in the lives of these children.’’
“These buses represent an opportunity for street children to benefit from learning and psychosocial support services, learn ways to reduce their stress, have the opportunity to engage in positive ways and use their creative energy to express their feelings in a safe environment,” said Ettie Higgins, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Lebanon. “The mobile units will also link children with additional services such as medical screenings and vaccination and mobilize communities to ensure local ownership and acceptance in support of this intervention.”

END

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/

For more information please contact
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unief.org +96170190634
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/260192-unicef-beirut-governorate-and-netherlands-commit-empower-and-protect-street-and-working




Date: 26 January 2024
Title: "Escalation of Hostilities in South Lebanon: Growing Toll on Civilians Deepens their Struggles" -- Statement by UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Lebanon, Mr. Imran Riza
Content: 26 January 2024
BEIRUT, 26 January 2024
I recently visited southern areas of Lebanon to meet with persons affected by the ongoing hostilities. I spoke to both people who had left their homes and are now displaced and those who, despite the risks, are staying.  It is clear that all are facing immense challenges.
Many spoke of the last three months being a time of loss, fear, and extreme uncertainty about the future. The ability to buffer shocks is very different today than it was the last time such displacement happened in the south, during the 2006 war.
The severe economic crisis over the past few years has also exacerbated the plight of the affected population, leaving them without savings and food stocks, and making them entirely dependent on securing some means of livelihood.
The ongoing destruction of agricultural land, coupled with insecurity and the inability to move safely due to the daily attacks, intensifies the despair among the communities.
Aisha, a 65-year-old displaced woman from Kfar Shouba, told me that she experienced displacement four times in her life. She’s tired and drained. Mohammed, a 60-year-old, who decided to stay in his border village, Hebbarieh, said that he cannot afford the costs of displacement, and despite relying on the limited aid, it's not enough.
The economic, personal, and psychological toll on the affected communities is heavy, further deepening the challenges they face.
Since the escalation of hostilities, over 86,000 persons have been displaced, with some 60,000 persons remaining in border villages highly affected by exchanges of fire. At least 25 civilians have been killed and there has been significant damage inflicted upon health centers, essential civilian infrastructure, residential houses, and agricultural lands.
I strongly renew my call to uphold international humanitarian law and safeguard civilians, medical personnel, residences, schools, and healthcare centers. Constant care must be taken to spare them.
All concerned parties must also facilitate access by humanitarians to civilians in need.
I reaffirm the United Nations' and our partners’ steadfast commitment to stay and deliver emergency relief and protection to civilians in need wherever they are.
What is needed most, however, is a de-escalation of tensions and an end to hostilities.
-ends-
For more information, please contact the office of United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon:
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/258918-escalation-hostilities-south-lebanon-growing-toll-civilians-deepens-their-struggles




Date: 24 January 2024
Title: To mark International Day of Education, Agence Française de Développement and UNICEF sign a new partnership to support education for children
Content: 24 January 2024
Through this contribution, UNICEF will ensure access to education to more than 90,000 children to learn in an inclusive, gender-responsive and protective environment. Additionally, more than 16 000 children will benefit from cash for education assistance while over 33,000 adolescent girls will receive hygiene kits. Moreover, AFD is funding the rehabilitation of 30 public schools in 2024 including solar energy to ensure uninterrupted learning. Through the TREF, AFD will also support the implementation of structural reforms to achieve a quality, resilient and efficient education system.

The Minister of Education and Higher Education, Dr. Abbas Al-Halabi, said: “This generous French contribution to the Education sector through the French Development Agency and UNICEF is a continuation of the existing partnership between us and the French Embassy with all its agencies, to enhance the operation of the ministry and leave no one out of education, and conclude the school year without interruption.”

The French Ambassador to Lebanon M. Hervé Magro said “France is convinced that there will be no possible recovery in Lebanon without a solid and renovated education system. The school is indeed the ideal place for learning to live together and for shaping the future citizen. Therefore, we are particularly proud to officially announce today, through the AFD, our new contribution to the TREF. This complements the rich range of programs already implemented by France in support of equal, quality, and multilingual education in Lebanon."

"Through our contribution to the TREF, alongside our European partners (EU and KFW), we reaffirm our commitment to equitable access to quality education for all children, especially the most vulnerable,” said AFD Director Mrs. Catherine Bonnaud. “This support for the education sector is now possible thanks to the joint efforts of development partners, gathered around the TREF, with UNICEF as a trusted partner for program implementation. This is, of course, made possible through the strong commitment of the Lebanese government, particularly the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, to invest more in the sector and implement structural reforms."

“On the International Day of Education, we reiterate our commitment to children’s right to be in school and learn. Our new partnership with the French Government will support us in accelerating learning results for children and respond to the many challenges the education sector is facing”, said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. “Education is one of the best investments we can make for children’s future. No effort should be spared to keep schools open and children learning. We must make sure that every child has access to an education, no matter where they live or who they are”.

ENDS

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/ or follow them on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

For more information please contact
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unief.org +96170190634
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/258756-mark-international-day-education-agence-fran%C3%A7aise-de-d%C3%A9veloppement-and-unicef-sign-new




Date: 15 December 2023
Title: Lebanon adopts landmark social security reforms and a new pension system for private sector workers
Content: 15 December 2023
New legislation, developed with extensive technical support from the ILO, is considered among the most significant socioeconomic reforms Lebanon has witnessed over the past three decades. Attention now turns towards ensuring its prompt implementation.


Previous attempts spanning three decades to replace Lebanon’s end-of-service indemnity system with a modern pension scheme had been met with failure. Until this recent milestone, Lebanon stood as one of only two countries in the Arab region without a scheme that protects insured workers with long-term periodical benefits for retirement, death and disability.
The International Labour Organization (ILO) provided extensive technical support to the relevant parliamentary committees, the NSSF and workers and employers’ organizations in Lebanon to reach a consensus over the design and parameters of the scheme, and the final text of the legislation that was adopted by Parliament, ensuring its alignment with international labour standards for social security.
“We congratulate all partners in Lebanon for achieving this historical milestone” said ILO Regional Director for Arab States Ruba Jaradat. “At a time of unprecedented social and economic crises, Lebanon shows that advancing structural reforms is possible and at the same time unavoidable. Stronger public social protection mechanisms and better functioning national institutions are critical to ensure that the economic recovery is also accompanied by a much need advancement of social justice,“ she added, acknowledging the collaboration with successive ministers of Labour who spearheaded this endeavour.
Nicolas Nahas, former minister and member of parliament, who headed the parliamentary sub-committee that revised and finalized the project of the law in the past legislature, considers this a major milestone for Lebanon “We have pursued this transformative legislation for years and are elated to witness its approval today. It marks a crucial step forward for our country given the benefit it will bring to both workers and employers. We hope that the implementation will meet the set targets in due course”, he said.
Older people in Lebanon have been hit hard by the unprecedented crises that have afflicted the country since 2019 - from the collapse of the economy to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the August 2020 Beirut Port explosion. Rising rates of poverty and unemployment across the country, coupled with an inadequate social protection system, have made it increasingly difficult for all people to meet their basic needs and have in particular negatively affected the social and physical wellbeing of those in later life. Even prior to these crises, the end-of-service indemnity system fell short in providing protection in old age.  The value of these indemnities has plummeted as a result of the collapse of the Lebanese Pound leaving those insured without any source of income and forcing many of them to continue working into old age.

The new pension benefits will be calculated taking into account two guaranteed minimum amounts: the first is 80 percent of the minimum wage after 30 years of contribution, the second is 1.33 percent for each year of the insured’s revalorized average wage. Benefits will be paid in case of disability and will be transferred to survivors in case of the death of the insured member or the pensioner. Pension values will also be indexed to inflation through a yearly adjustment process.
“This is one of the most important socioeconomic reforms Lebanon has achieved in the past 30 years.” commented Mohammed Karaki, Director General of the NSSF “We have worked hard to completely revise the social security law, so as to ensure a decent retirement lto the Lebanese population. We are grateful for the support received from the ILO, especially in relation to the actuarial and legal standards advice and the continuous and close accompaniment on this project, and we look forward to continuing the partnership to develop solid systems for its delivery”, he added.
Bilal Abdallah, member of parliament and head of the Parliamentary Committee on Health, Labour, and Social Affairs said "The law passed by Parliament, based on the proposal put forth by the subcommittee and endorsed by the joint committees, is comprehensive and aligns with essential international standards. Tailored to the unique Lebanese context and realities, it strikes a delicate balance between redistribution and capitalization, and streamlines the fund’s management and investment, ensuring the sustainability of its benefits.” In fact, as a key aspect of the reform, the law introduces an entirely new governance structure for the NSSF. The current board of directors will be replaced by a smaller board of ten members, four representing workers, four representing employers and two representing the government. Notably, six of the members will be required to be specialized experts on matters of social protection. Overseeing the funds will be an independent committee of investment, comprised of specialized experts, along with a dedicated investment arm. The NSSF is also mandated to institute a system for the electronic payment of contributions and benefits, and a digital platform for workers and employers to access information on their social security rights.
“The new system will improve the well-being of Lebanese who reach retirement age and strengthen social solidarity which is very important for Lebanon these days,” said Luca Pellerano, Senior Social Protection Specialist who has led technical engagement on the project from the ILO Regional office in Beirut. “This has fundamental importance, not only for reducing social vulnerabilities but also for ensuring the proper functioning of the entire social security system. The new law should encourage employers to declare full salaries to the NSSF, from which other branches of the system - most importantly the health insurance branch - will in turn benefit.”
The reform was hailed by all social partners, who actively engaged in a series of social dialogue over the past years ultimately reaching a consensus on the final outcome of the reform. In his remarks, Bchara el Asmar, the head of the General Confederation of Workers (CGTL), deems this law “a fundamental turning point in the interests of the insured, serving as a guarantee for the continuity of salary post-retirement." Emphasizing the urgency of swift implementation, he underscores the necessity of promptly issuing the required implementation decrees to "establish a minimum guarantee of social security for workers which they have been without for over two decades – a reality that was further exacerbated by the suffocating crisis and the erosion of the value of indemnities, savings, and deposits."
On the other hand, the Association of Lebanese Industrialists, through its President Salim Zeenni, welcomed this reform as a “blessed step resulting from a long struggle and close cooperation between the private sector, CGTL, and the Lebanese state, with the unwavering support of the International Labour Organization, who worked tirelessly and made tremendous efforts to develop the key parameters for this law and contributed to its successful conclusion.”
The reform represents a critical component of a broader national social protection strategy which was recently adopted by the Council of Ministers, with financial support to the process from the European Union. The ILO will now shift its focus towards supporting the NSSF and social partners in its successful and timely implementation - the next significant challenge in this endeavour.
For further information, please contact Senior Social Protection Specialist Luca Pellerano at pellerano@ilo.org, and Social Protection Specialist Rania Eghnatios at eghnatios@ilo.org.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/256202-lebanon-adopts-landmark-social-security-reforms-and-new-pension-system-private-sector




Date: 13 December 2023
Title: German Ambassador hands over Trauma emergency medical supplies procured by WHO to Health Minister
Content: 13 December 2023

Minister Al-Abiad affirmed "the Ministry's keenness to continue ensuring high readiness for the health sector in Lebanon so that it can meet the current emergency needs and any future needs in the event of the development of the Israeli aggression against Lebanon." He thanked the German Embassy and the World Health Organization for the support represented by the donation of supplies, pointing out the many German initiatives regarding the health system, whether regarding government hospitals or supplying primary care centers with solar energy. Dr. Al-Abiad noted that the World Health Organization stands by Lebanon in the various accumulated and successive health crises, as the organization spares no effort to support the Lebanese health system.

WHO procured and delivered to the MOPH central drug warehouse, ten trauma and emergency surgical kits through WHO’s Duba Hub. Each trauma Kit contains medication, supplies, and surgical tools, to meet the needs of 50 patients requiring surgical care in emergency situations with a total of 100 surgical procedures. The trauma and emergency surgical kits will be distributed to 10 MOPH-designated hospitals as part of the emergency contingency plan. The donation of trauma kits by the German government will help in managing mass casualties and saving lives. MoPH and WHO are thankful for the German government's contribution to the overall health sector, particularly during the COVID-19 response in Lebanon.

In turn, the German Ambassador to Lebanon, Mr. Kurt Georg Stoeckl-Stillfried, affirmed his country’s support of WHO’s and the Ministry of Public Health’s collaborative efforts to provide emergency healthcare services. Germany is grateful to be able to contribute to WHO’s crucial work here in Lebanon to serve the most vulnerable in health emergencies and to support the promise of health care for all even in crisis situations.

Commenting on WHO’s commitment to leave no one behind, Dr. Abdinasir stated, “Lebanon's people have experienced a lot of suffering over the past few years due to the overlap of several crises, which ultimately impacted to health system in the country. Our commitment is to support the Ministry of Public Health in ensuring equitable access to health care for all. In the event of a conflict escalation, we are committed to ensuring the implementation of the preparedness and response plan.”

After the August 4 explosions that destroyed the Central Drug Warehouse, WHO initiated the reconstruction of the warehouse and increased the storage capacity from 600 m3 to 8,000 m3. The team of engineers supervised by WHO rebuilt the warehouse with the highest standard and safety measures as well as modernizing the storage and distribution capacities of the warehouse. Central Drug Warehouse utilizes Logistics Management System software to enhance the delivery and monitoring of medical supplies.

Today, the world is commemorating Universal Health Day 2023 with theme of “Health For All: Time for Action.” The UHC's main goal is to ensure that all Lebanese have access to essential healthcare and medicine without financial hardship, and this donation will make a significant contribution to achieve the goal.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/255745-german-ambassador-hands-over-trauma-emergency-medical-supplies-procured-who-health-minister




Date: 12 December 2023
Title: Women and youth complete urban farming and food production training in Abou Samra, Tripoli
Content: 12 December 2023

This course was provided to a total of 100 women and 50 youth over the past nine months together with implementing partner Dar Al Zahraa Organization, as part of UN-Habitat’s Marjeh project. Funded by the Embassy of Japan in Lebanon, the Marjeh project has implemented urban farming and adequate water and renewable energy solutions within the community of Shalfeh located in Abou Samra, Tripoli since January this year.
“Japan is placing an emphasis on advancing the agricultural sector through projects that enhance food security and support livelihoods. This recent assistance that promotes urban farming in Tripoli pushes towards these objectives and helped create job opportunities in food and agriculture production, by providing the necessary infrastructure and knowledge. We hope that this grant will establish a sustainable model that is environmentally friendly and economically viable,” said H.E. Magoshi Masayuki, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon.

Abou Samra’s Shalfeh area is one of the most vulnerable neighbourhoods in Tripoli. Communities face precarious living conditions and socioeconomic insecurity due to Lebanon’s protracted crises. In order to provide longer-term livelihood opportunities to the community, the Marjeh project is expanding the scope of its urban farming component by establishing an urban farm in Zeitoun, Tripoli on an agricultural plot owned by the Islamic Awkaf Department of Tripoli. With the technical support of FAO on good agricultural practices from farm to consumer, fifty women who participated in the urban farming and food production training will apply the skills they learned through cash-for-work to grow, and harvest produce on this farm to create food products for the local market.
“Agriculture is the foundation of the development of nations and the basis for increasing production, and countries that depend on the cultivation of their lands guarantee the strength of their economy and development, and their fate is not in the hands of others. Agriculture is not a profession but a way of life that connects people with their land,” said Ahmad Kamareddine, Mayor of Tripoli.
In addition to the urban farming and upscaling component, UN-Habitat is working to provide clean water, promote good hygiene and support the shift to renewable energy in two mixed public schools: Samih Malawi; and, Hay El Nozha, as well as a Hay El Nozha health dispensary.
“Urban farming promotes local and sustainable food systems. Agriculture in cities is good for the environment, the ecosystem and the climate, while providing more green spaces to help keep cities cool and counter the urban heat island effect. It also has multiple social benefits, through the promotion of social cohesion and communal livelihood opportunities. UN-Habitat hopes that the Marjeh project will serve an example of how such an approach can empower communities in cities, enabling them to secure livelihoods closer to home, revitalize vacant spaces, and foster skills development,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.

The Marjeh project is encouraging the application of acquired skills and knowledge to enhance food security at both the community and household levels and promoting hygiene and sanitation practices among vulnerable population groups in the Shalfeh neighbourhood. This multifaceted approach intends not only to address immediate needs but to enhance the community’s long-term resilience and well-being.

-ENDS-

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

About the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations that leads international efforts to defeat hunger. Our goal is to achieve food security for all and make sure that people have regular access to enough high-quality food to lead active, healthy lives. With 195 members - 194 countries and the European Union, FAO works in over 130 countries worldwide.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/255569-women-and-youth-complete-urban-farming-and-food-production-training-abou-samra-tripoli




Date: 24 November 2023
Title: The 16 Days of Activism Campaign against Gender-Based Violence kicks off in Lebanon as violence increases amid current multi-layered crisis
Content: 24 November 2023

Violence against women and girls remains one of the most prevalent and pervasive human rights violations in the world. Globally, an estimated 736 million women – almost one in three – have been subjected to physical and/or sexual intimate partner violence, non-partner sexual violence, or both at least once in their life.[1] There are many different forms of violence against women—physical, sexual, psychological and economic. Violence against women has far-reaching consequences for women, their children, and society as a whole. Women who are subjected to gender-based violence suffer a range of health problems, and their ability to earn a living and to participate in public life is diminished. Their children are significantly more at risk of health problems, poor school performance and behavioral disturbances.

In Lebanon, women and girls are increasingly facing gender-based violence (GBV) at home, at work and in the public sphere. In 2020, 43 per cent of women and 30 per cent of men reported witnessing violence or knowing a woman who had experienced violence[2]. Preventing violence against women and girls requires long-term, concerted efforts and a multidisciplinary approach that includes raising awareness on the negative consequences of violence against women; addressing the root causes of the problem by changing discriminatory social norms and gender stereotypes through the engagement of all of society; empowering women and girls in the economic, political and social spheres to enhance their resources and skills and strengthening access to justice for women and girls survivors of violence and ending impunity for perpetrators of violence against women and girls.

This year, the UN, Gender Working Group (GWG), Gender-Based Violence Working Group (GBV WG) and NCLW are propelling the global campaign with a national call to action to address the increased risks of gender-based violence, including in times of crisis. Based on the global theme, UNiTE! Invest to prevent violence against women and girls, focuses on the importance of financing strategies to stop violence from occurring in the first place.

“This global initiative serves as a powerful reminder that it is our duty to come together and cultivate a safer, more inclusive world for everyone. We are steadfast in our conviction that no individual should ever experience violence or discrimination based on their gender. We are committed to tirelessly working at all levels to guarantee that each woman and girl has the chance to live a life devoid of fear and to never give up in our battle against violence. By joining forces, we can forge a future where hope prevails over despair, and where compassion and unity lay the foundation for a world where every person is cherished and esteemed,” said Claudine Aoun, President of the National Commission for Lebanese Women.

Bearing in mind that GBV services are lifesaving in situations of peace and even more so in times of crisis, the campaign will raise awareness of the struggles of women and girls in these challenging times and draw attention to how the Government of Lebanon and donors can ensure that gender-based violence is prioritized in annual and multi-year planning and funding.

"Gender-based violence is not only a human rights violation but is also damaging to society as a whole,” said UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Joanna Wronecka. “As Lebanon faces multiple crises, most recently the risk of conflict, women and girls have the right to be safe and protected. Women should also be empowered to use their full potential and to play leading roles in contributing to their country’s wellbeing, peace and security and sustainable development."

Coordinated by UN Women, the campaign includes social media messaging over the course of the 16 days, with the #NoExcuse and #وقفة_لوقف_العنف hashtags, which aims at drawing attention to the needs of women and girls in all their diversity. The campaign’s main visual will be hanged up on NCLW’s building façade, throughout the 16 days.

The campaign will include a video featuring international Lebanese artist Abeer Nehme and news anchor and university professor Yazbek Wehbe and social media posts calling on national institutions, humanitarian partners and policymakers to prioritize gender and GBV risk-mitigation strategies in ongoing emergency planning and preparedness. It also asks for the support of community leaders and all women, men and girls in advocating for the protection of women and girls from violence, at all times, including in times of conflict and crises.

"As we continue to advocate for peace in these difficult times, we also prioritize gender-based violence in our ongoing emergency preparedness and response plans to help prevent and curb the deliberate violence against women and girls in these times of distress and heightened vulnerability” commented Imran Riza, United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon.
“Throughout these 16 days of activism, we call for increased investment in the prevention and protection of women and girls from the scourge of violence. This is crucial to help forge a path where every woman and girl can live free from fear, discrimination, and violence," he stated.

The international 16 Days of Activism against GBV campaign originated from the 1991 first Women’s Global Leadership Institute as a means to raise awareness and increase momentum to ending violence against women and girls worldwide. The UNITE to End Violence against Women initiative, launched in 2008 under the leadership of the UN Secretary-General, supports the civil-society-led 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence campaign around the world.
*** END ***
_______________________________________
The United Nations system in Lebanon comprises 26 agencies, funds and programmes, as well as a peacekeeping mission, a political mission, and a regional commission that cover a broad spectrum of peacekeeping, political, development, human rights, and humanitarian work in Lebanon. The United Nations supports Lebanon to promote the country’s long-term peace and security, development, and human rights priorities.
The National Commission for Lebanese women (NCLW) is an official institution established by law at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in 1998 with the aim of promoting the status of women and ensuring equal opportunities for women and men. Its General Assembly is composed of personalities known for their activities related to women’s affairs and is chaired by the woman delegated by the President of the Republic. The Commission carries out consultative functions at the Presidency of the Government and public administrations and institutions, as well as liaison and coordination functions with various administrations, institutions, public, community and civic organizations, and Arab and international organizations. The Commission also performs various executive functions, including the formulation of strategies and plans.
The Gender Working Group (GWG) in Lebanon operating under the Protection Sector, is co-chaired by the Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA), UNFPA and UNHCR and is comprised of over 40 national and international NGOs/ CSOs, women-led and women rights organizations. Its aim is to ensure effective GBV prevention, response and risk mitigation programs are implemented by all GBV actors in Lebanon. Through monthly GBV coordination meetings, the GBV WG regularly assesses and analyzes information and data on the legal and socioeconomic environment in Lebanon to understand and address GBV risks, consequences and ultimately the root causes of GBV in the country informing the sector’s response strategies and advocacy actions.
The Gender Working Group (GWG) in Lebanon, chaired by UN Women and UNDP is a strategic forum and advocacy platform to promote gender equality and the integration of gender considerations in humanitarian-development-peace (HDP) actions of the United Nations and their partners in Lebanon. The GWG regularly convenes both international and national actors from across sectors to facilitate action on gender equality and women’s rights. The Gender Working Group is made up of 91 members (UN agencies: 20, INGOs: 32, and NGOs: 39); 15 member states collaborate with the group in an observatory status capacity. This group is complementary to the Gender Donor Working Group, chaired by the Government of Canada in Lebanon.

Media contacts:
Roula Rached, Communications and Advocacy Specialist, UN Women, phone number: +961 70351088
Micheline Elias Massaad, NCLW Executive Director, phone number: +961 3 452 570
Jumanah Zabaneh, Programme Management Specialist and Gender Working Group Co-Chair, UN Women, phone number: +961 3 498317
Sophie Etzold, Gender-based violence Coordinator, UNHCR, phone number +961 70 11 3293

[1] UN Women. 2023. “Violence against women: Facts and figures”. 21 September.
[2] https://arabstates.unwomen.org/en/digital-library/publications/2023/08/gender-statistical-profile-lebanon-2023


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/253740-16-days-activism-campaign-against-gender-based-violence-kicks-lebanon-violence-increases




Date: 24 November 2023
Title: FAO and Lebanon's Ministry of Agriculture sign an agreement to enhance food and nutrition
Content: 24 November 2023

The project aims at increasing the adoption of gender-responsive, nutrition-sensitive good and climate smart agricultural practices, and improving the performance of fruits and vegetables value chains as well as the enabling environment in which value chain actors operate.
It also aims at increasing resilience to climate and economic shocks of fruits and vegetables value-chains for an enhanced food and nutrition security in Lebanon.
Small-scale fruits and vegetables farmers – women in particular – and their organizations will be supported to increase their technical and organizational skills to participate more effectively in selected value chains and increase their income.
Input producers, processors, and traders are also supported to develop their business strategies and activities to adopt innovative and modern technologies at the production/marketing and processing levels, to become more competitive, inclusive, sustainable and responsive to farmers’ needs. Farmers, their associations, and cooperatives will be empowered to coordinate their strategies and activities thus making safer, healthier and more affordable food available. This will contribute to increasing resilience of food systems.
This project allows to foster the strategic partnership between the Government of Canada, the Lebanese Ministry of Agriculture, and the Food and Agriculture Organization to support the sustainability of the agricultural sector in Lebanon.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/253979-fao-and-lebanons-ministry-agriculture-sign-agreement-enhance-food-and-nutrition




Date: 21 November 2023
Title: Special Coordinator Wronecka Briefs Security Council on Resolution 1701
Content: 21 November 2023

The Special Coordinator underlined the urgent need to de-escalate the situation along the Blue Line.  “Our collective focus and advocacy must be on urging the parties to exercise restraint and calling for a return to the cessation of hostilities through the full implementation of resultion 1701 to prevent a wider conflagration that Lebanon neither wants nor can afford," she said.
Expressing deep concern over the daily skirmishes across the Blue Line since 8 October, the Special Coordinator said the developments of the past six weeks represent the most serious violations of resolution 1701 since its adoption in 2006. This also serves as a reminder that the full implementation of resolution 1701 is a key entry point to realize peace, security and stability in the region.
The ongoing exchanges of fire have resulted in numerous casualties, including civilians, on both sides, internal displacement of thousands as well as material and environmental damages. Notably, the danger of miscalculation and broader conflict is ever-present.  In addition to the need for an immediate cessation of hostilities, the Special Coordinator noted that outstanding obligations remain for both Lebanon and Israel under resolution 1701.
The Special Coordinator reiterated the Secretary-General’s emphasis on adhering to international humanitarian and human rights law, namely obligations to protect civilians, including journalists, as well as to ensure the safety of UN personnel on the ground and to respect the inviolability of UN premises, schools and medical facilities.
The ongoing developments have also underscored the importance of a strong and well-resourced Lebanese Armed Forces in the successful implementation of resolution 1701, the Special Coordinator said, urging continued and further international support for Lebanon’s state security institutions.
Regretting that Lebanon has been without a president of the Republic for over one year, the Special Coordinator said the best way to enhance Lebanon’s ability to address challenges was through functioning and empowered state institutions, particularly in times of crisis. She said recent developments underscore the urgent need for Lebanon’s political leaders to set aside their differences and embrace an approach that would facilitate the election of a president and the subsequent formation of a fully empowered government.
In conclusion, the Special Coordinator reiterated the commitment of the United Nations to continue standing by Lebanon and its people.
********
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/253582-special-coordinator-wronecka-briefs-security-council-resolution-1701




Date: 17 November 2023
Title: WHO ISSUES EMERGENCY APPEAL FOR LEBANON AS CROSS-BORDER HOSTILITIES INCREASE
Content: 17 November 2023
WHO is asking for funds to increase capacity for mass casualty management and emergency care, to ensure continuity of essential health services for vulnerable and affected populations, and to strengthen disease surveillance and control, among other actions.
WHO takes into account 2 possible scenarios in the appeal: if hostilities are confined to the south of Lebanon, the Organization estimates it will need US$ 6.7 million for readiness and response; if hostilities expand to the entire country, it will need US$ 11.1 million.
The appeal is part of an evolving WHO multi-country funding appeal for the occupied Palestinian territory and neighboring countries, with an estimated overall funding requirement of US$ 140 million.
Lebanon is experiencing a prolonged economic crisis, which has reduced people’s income and access to health care. Shortages of medicines and catastrophic out-of-pocket health costs are common, while more than 40% of the health workforce is estimated to have left the country. It is estimated that 2 in 3 people in Lebanon need humanitarian assistance, including for health.
The ongoing hostilities in southern Lebanon and on the border with Israel and the uncertainty about the future are added burdens on the health system. To date, 77 people have been killed, 331 injured and over 26,000 people displaced within Lebanon. Three attacks on health care have also been reported.
WHO, along with the Ministry of Public Health and other partners, has begun preparing for the potential expansion of conflict. A public health emergency operations center, led by the Ministry with WHO support, has been activated to coordinate the national response.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/253250-who-issues-emergency-appeal-lebanon-cross-border-hostilities-increase




Date: 10 November 2023
Title: Statement by the Humanitarian Coordinator in Lebanon, Imran Riza, about the situation in Lebanon
Content: 10 November 2023
In Lebanon, there have been concerning signs of escalating tensions marked by an increase in hostilities along the Blue Line.
We have recently witnessed alarming attacks killing and injuring civilians in South Lebanon, including women, children, and media personnel.  Significant damage has also been inflicted upon private property, public infrastructure, and agricultural land, forcing over 25,000 people to be displaced. Local farmers risk their lives to harvest olives and tobacco, crucial for sustaining their livelihoods and income.
Even wars have rules. I firmly remind all parties that they must strictly adhere to international humanitarian law throughout their military operations.
Wherever they are, civilians – including humanitarian and medical workers – must be protected. Civilian objects – including homes, farms, and hospitals – must be protected.
In such somber circumstances, I reiterate the United Nations’ steadfast commitment to stay and continue providing relief and protection to civilians in need wherever they are.
I call on all parties to exercise restraint and avoid further escalation. Any further suffering of the civilian population must absolutely be avoided.

-END-
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/252481-statement-humanitarian-coordinator-lebanon-imran-riza-about-situation-lebanon




Date: 01 November 2023
Title: WHO Regional Director Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari concludes visit to Lebanon
Content: 01 November 2023

“An increased spillover of hostilities into southern Lebanon would concerningly place even more civilians at risk of death or injury and potentially threaten the health security of the entire Region. Ultimately, we call for a ceasefire in Gaza, so that further loss and suffering can be prevented. As part of regional preparedness efforts, we are working to ensure that Lebanon’s health system is better prepared to manage the mass casualty and to provide health services to people displaced without compromising existing health services for people living in the area,” Dr Al-Mandhari said.
The health system in Lebanon has been challenged by the ongoing economic crisis and the impact of the Beirut blast of August 2020, and overwhelmed by the increasing burden of Syrian refugees' needs. Critical shortages of specialized medical doctors and health workers, medicines and medical equipment, and other health supplies have added more layers of complexity to the challenges facing the health system and the health of the population.
Together with support from WHO and health partners, the Ministry of Public Health has scaled up preparedness and readiness of the health system to support mass casualty management and the provision of emergency healthcare services to people affected by a potential escalation of conflict.
WHO has supported the establishment and operationalization of the Public Health Emergency Operation Center (PHEOC) at the Ministry of Public Health to coordinate and support all health preparedness and response activities. On 31 October, WHO prepositioned trauma supplies, enough for 800 people, in eight public hospitals to scale up their capacity to potentially receive greater numbers of injured patients. More trauma and surgical supplies, enough for 3000 people, will be delivered in the coming days to 30 referral hospitals to strengthen their emergency response capacity.
During his visit, Dr. Al-Mandhari, accompanied by Dr. Richard Brennan, Regional Emergency Director, met with Lebanon’s Prime Minister Mr. Najib Mikati, and Minister of Public Health, Dr. Firass Abiad.  Mr. Mikati thanked WHO for its continued support in responding to health needs in Lebanon during the multi-crises the country has passed through in recent years, and the rapid support provided in response to the potential escalating health emergency on the border.
Appreciating the collaboration between WHO and the Ministry of Public Health, Dr. Abiad stressed the importance of emergency preparedness and response and stated that WHO support for health system strengthening during emergencies has been critical.
Dr Al-Mandhari also visited the Ministry of Public Health warehouse in Karatina, where additional health supplies received from WHO’s logistics hub in Dubai have been pre-positioned for southern Lebanon. An additional airlift of trauma kits from Dubai is expected to arrive in Lebanon next week, and the Ministry of Public Health has already identified the referral hospitals that will receive these vital supplies.
UN partners voiced their appreciation for the health sector’s preparedness and readiness efforts and expressed concern over the lack of funding to respond to increasing health needs.
As part of a WHO Regional appeal for the Gaza crisis launched last week, WHO requested a total of US$ 50 million for its response in Gaza, and US$ 10.4 million to support the health response for a potential spillover into Lebanon.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/251528-who-regional-director-dr-ahmed-al-mandhari-concludes-visit-lebanon




Date: 24 October 2023
Title: Special Coordinator Wronecka Statement on UN Day
Content: 24 October 2023

The Special Coordinator recalled that the primary objective of the 193-member United Nations as enshrined in the UN Charter is to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. “Sadly, the risks to peace and security are rising for Lebanon and the region, but we should never give up on the prospects of peace and of promoting a more sustainable future for the people of Lebanon,” the Special Coordinator said.

Noting with deep concern the continuing exchanges of fire across the Blue Line, the Special Coordinator appealed for de-escalation, a halt to the violence and restoration of calm in the area. “It is more urgent than ever for hostilities to cease and for Security Council Resolution 1701 to be implemented in its entirety,” she said.

The Special Coordinator said the United Nations, with its 26 different UN agencies, funds and programmes in the country, had increased its support to Lebanon during the past few years in response to mounting challenges. These efforts cover the whole spectrum of the UN’s political and peacekeeping work, development efforts, humanitarian support and respect for human rights, in an approach that is inclusive and focused on leaving no one behind.

While the UN is currently coordinating with Lebanon the emergency and preparedness plans, active efforts are also underway in coordination with international partners to help protect Lebanon from conflict and safeguard its security and stability.

The concerted international efforts notwithstanding, the Special Coordinator said sustainable peace can only come from within. “This is the time for strengthening national unity and collective solidarity to face these challenging times for Lebanon,” she said. “The best way to do so is by strengthening and fortifying the country’s state institutions, including with the election of a new President without further delay,” she said.

The Special Coordinator emphasized that the best way to mark the UN day in turbulent times is to translate the values of the Charter into action. She reiterated the recent call by Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for “action to build a future worthy of the dreams of the children of the region and our world”.

With a commitment to Lebanon’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, stability and development, the Special Coordinator reiterated the UN’s resolve to continue supporting Lebanon and the Lebanese people.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/250417-special-coordinator-wronecka-statement-un-day




Date: 17 October 2023
Title: UN Lebanon Denies Reports of Evacuation of Staff from Lebanon
Content: 17 October 2023
UN operations and activities in Lebanon continue uninterrupted and the UN remains committed to supporting Lebanon and its people during this challenging period.
To avoid the spread of misinformation and unnecessary concerns during this sensitive period, the UN urges the media to verify the accuracy of reports before they are shared with the public.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/249750-un-lebanon-denies-reports-evacuation-staff-lebanon




Date: 15 October 2023
Title: WHO delivers medical supplies to Lebanon as violence in the occupied Palestinian territory intensifies
Content: 15 October 2023

Two shipments arrived in Beirut today from WHO’s logistics hub in Dubai, and include enough surgical and trauma medicines and supplies to meet the needs of 800 to 1000 injured patients. The Lebanese Ministry of Health is in the process of identifying the referral hospitals that will receive these vital supplies.
Lebanon’s health system has been crippled as a result of an economic crisis, the Beirut port blast that occurred in August 2020, and the additional burden of the Syrian refugee crisis. There are severe shortages of specialized medical doctors and health workers, and medicines and medical equipment.
Since violence escalated between Israel and the occupied Palestinian territory last Saturday, there have also been reports of clashes on the border between Israel and south Lebanon, resulting in casualties among civilians. If these clashes escalate, more civilians will be at risk, and they will need immediate access to lifesaving medical care.
WHO is working with the Ministry of Public Health (MoPH) and health partners in Lebanon to strengthen preparedness and readiness within the health system to respond to potential increases in casualties due to escalating violence. WHO is supporting the MoPH in activating its Public Health Emergency Operations Centre (PHEOC) to facilitate improved coordination of emergency responses at both central and sub-national levels.
In addition to prioritizing casualty management, significant attention will be directed towards ensuring the uninterrupted delivery of essential healthcare services and providing mental health and psychosocial support.
Within the Gaza Strip, ongoing violence has resulted in thousands of deaths and injuries, and inflicted unprecedented damage on the health care system.
WHO reiterates its plea for the protection of civilians, health workers and health infrastructure, and ultimately, for an end to hostilities and violence.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/249575-who-delivers-medical-supplies-lebanon-violence-occupied-palestinian-territory-intensifies




Date: 11 October 2023
Title: Building Bridges: ILO’s EU-funded ENABLE Programme links Social Protection and Employment Activation in Lebanon
Content: 11 October 2023
ENABLE - Empowering Networks and Activation for Building Long-term Employment - aims to adapt employment policies to support social protection strategies in order to facilitate integration of vulnerable workers in productive sectors, thus promoting decent employment opportunities in Lebanon.
The programme, implemented in collaboration with Lebanese ministries, local authorities and the ILO's Employment Intensive Infrastructure Programme (EIIP), targets vulnerable and unemployed youth, women, and persons with disabilities. By offering alternative employment opportunities, short-term job placements, and market-relevant skills training, ENABLE aims to enhance economic activation and promote economic inclusion in the country.
The launch event brought together a diverse range of stakeholders, experts, and community representatives.
During the launch event, Minister of Social Affairs Dr. Hector Hajjar said: “Today, we gather here to launch a new programme that aims at empowerment and upliftment. This is nothing but our recognition that immediate financial assistance, no matter how necessary, is temporary and circumstantial. We, at the Ministry of Social Affairs, have been working for some time on laying the foundations for uplifting Lebanese families from poverty through the automation of financial aid programmes such as the "Aman" programme, the National Programme for Supporting the Poorest Families, and the Cash Allowance Programme for Persons with Disabilities. This facilitates and organizes the process of selecting families and individuals eligible to participate in empowerment and upliftment programmes based on specific criteria.”
Ms. Alessandra Viezzer, Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Lebanon, said: “The ENABLE Programme embodies our shared commitment to making a tangible difference in the lives of those affected by the ongoing crisis. It seeks to provide alternative and sustainable livelihoods to some of the most vulnerable populations in Lebanon, particularly unskilled and unemployed youth, women, and persons with disabilities.”
ILO Deputy Regional Director for Arab States Mr. Peter Rademaker said: “The essence of the ENABLE programme is to make the connections between social protection and employment. All vulnerable people need to be assisted, but those that are able and willing to work should be supported to get in the labour market. This nexus between protection and employment is what ENABLE is doing.”
The ILO ENABLE Chief Technical Advisor, Mr. Federico Barroetta, presented a technical overview of the programme's key objectives and pillars, along with the action plan.
The event featured expert-led panel discussions on key topics including adapted employment policies to support social protection, employment opportunities, linking social protection and employment, and private sector support and decent work. These dynamic discussions shed light on effective strategies and innovative approaches to address Lebanon's employment challenges, inspiring collaborative efforts and paving the way for positive change.
The event witnessed the active participation of government officials, civil society representatives, and UN agencies, who contributed valuable insights and expertise towards advancing the programme's objectives and ensuring its long-term sustainability. The event is expected to serve as a catalyst for collaboration and networking, and fostering partnerships that will play a crucial role in driving the programme's success.
Moving forward, the European Union, ILO, the Ministry of Social Affairs and their partners will continue their collaborative efforts to ensure the ongoing implementation and success of the ENABLE Programme, which ultimately aims to empower individuals and enhance social protection measures by creating sustainable employment opportunities in Lebanon. By leveraging the expertise, resources, and networks of all stakeholders involved, the ILO remains committed to driving positive change, fostering inclusive economic growth, and building a more resilient and prosperous future for individuals.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/249118-building-bridges-ilo%E2%80%99s-eu-funded-enable-programme-links-social-protection-and-employment




Date: 05 October 2023
Title: Second regional Steering Committee convened on the  “Resilient Water Solutions Against Climate Change in Jordan and Lebanon” project
Content: 05 October 2023

Chaired by the Jordanian Minister of Environment Dr. Muawieh Khalid Radaideh and Lebanese Minister of Environment Dr. Nasser Yassin, the Committee meeting gathered the project’s national coordinators, local authorities, project partners and other relevant stakeholders. The Committee discussed project progress, milestones, challenges, and solutions, and operationalized a concrete platform for critical regional learning in both countries towards climate change adaptation solutions.

The meeting provided critical insight into the areas where regional exchange is mostly needed, with a focus on the two countries, and concluded with measures to further enhance the transfer of knowledge and experiences gained through project implementation. It also concluded with concrete entry points to promote the upscaling, replication and sustainability of the project, and served as a practical learning experience between Lebanese and Jordanian officials while visiting two wastewater treatment and reuse projects in Mafraq and Me’rad, a permaculture site at Jerash University, and the Urban Observatory of Greater Amman Municipality.

In his remarks, Radiadeh highlighted climate impacts on Jordan. “The climate-related challenges facing the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan are significant… rainfall rates have decreased by almost half over the past fifty years, while the share of water per capita has decreased by nearly 80%. Over the years, it has also become clear that climate change would impact various development sectors, including water, agriculture, urban areas, health, and society as a whole,” said Radaideh. “This meeting comes within the context of ensuring the effective implementation of the project, discussing the progression of project activities and benefiting from the diverse experiences in both countries, and working collaboratively to achieve the project’s objectives.”

Meanwhile, Yassin emphasized the importance of regional collaboration to adapt to climate change and stressed the importance of international funding. “Joint efforts amongst Arab states to combat climate change and its implications on the water sector are of utmost importance. There is a need to promote and adopt innovative measures in different sectors such as water, agriculture, management of forests and natural reserves,” said Yassin. “There is an unfulfilled commitment of industrial countries to fund adaptation projects in underdeveloped countries, where pledges committed during different climate summits have not reached 6% of the total commitments,” he added.

UN-Habitat Regional Representative (a.i.) for Arab States Rania Hedaya highlighted water scarcity amid displacement and increased urbanization in the Levant. “Water scarcity is one of the most pressing current issues causing concern for the future of our region. In addition to the effects of climate change, the Arab region is witnessing rapid urbanization accompanied by a large influx of refugees due to the spread of conflicts in the region. As our cities expand, this project’s interventions strive to address the complex interaction between urban growth, migration and climate change in both Jordan and Lebanon,” she said.

“For Jordan and Lebanon, climate change is exacerbating vulnerability in rural and urban communities and in formal and informal communities alike,” said Director of the Arab Centre for Climate Change Policies Cluster at ESCWA Ms. Carol Chouchani Cherfane. “This requires effective solutions that advance climate adaptation,” she stressed. “Your efforts identifying, testing and pursuing these solutions on the ground can be shared with others in the region and around the world.”

The project provides replicable and innovative measures to promote climate change resilience and adaptation in the Arab region, with a focus on promoting climate change and gender mainstreamed urban planning in areas facing extreme weather events, namely governorates of Mafraq and Irbid in Jordan and Zahle district in Lebanon.

Financed by the Adaptation Fund, the project works on enabling local communities to adapt to increasing temperatures and declining precipitation levels that mostly lead to droughts, in addition to the varying rainfall patterns, which negatively affect agriculture. Finally, the project focuses on the sustainable management and use of water resources through promoting water-efficient irrigation methods and permaculture, in addition to using non-conventional water sources, such as treated wastewater and harvested rainwater.

To promote regional knowledge exchange, the project also recently launched the virtual Community of Practice (CoP) “Urban Water and Climate Resilience in the Arab Region,” a platform that brings experts and practitioners together to discuss water-related climate change impacts on cities hosting displaced communities, including discussions around urban adaptation solutions.
***********

About the “Resilient Water Solutions Against Climate Change in Jordan and Lebanon” project
The "Resilient water solutions against climate change in Jordan and Lebanon" project is funded by the Adaptation Fund and implemented by UN-Habitat in partnership with ESCWA and UNICEF in Lebanon and national executing partners in the targeted countries. The project aims to increase the resilience of communities to climate change-related water challenges in Lebanon and Jordan.

About UN-Habitat
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. For more information, visit https://unhabitat.org/
Or follow us on Twitter @UNHabitat_Ar and Facebook @UNHABITAT.Arabic

About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States and works on enhancing regional integration.

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/ or follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.

For media inquiries:

Ms. Shahira Elbokhary, UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States
T: +20 2 33380588
E: shahira.elbokhary@un.org

Ms. Lubna Elmahdy, UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961-76-615373
E: lubna.elmahdy1@un.org

Ms. Maryam Sleiman, ESCWA
M: +961-81-769888
E: sleiman2@un.org

Ms. Rania Harb, ESCWA
M: +961-70-008-879
E: harb1@un.org

Ms. Blanche Baz, UNICEF
M: +961-70190634
E: bbaz@unicef.org

Ms. Maya Outayek, UNICEF
M: +961- 70190634
E: moutayek@unicef.org



UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/248373-second-regional-steering-committee-convened-%E2%80%9Cresilient-water-solutions-against-climate




Date: 27 September 2023
Title: Learning interrupted for over 11,000 Palestine Refugee Children
Content: 27 September 2023
“UNRWA was forced to take this decision given all our eight schools inside the camp have been taken over by armed groups. They have sustained significant destruction and damage. Other schools – outside the camp- are currently being used by displaced families,” said Dorothée Klaus, Director of UNRWA Affairs in Lebanon.
At least 4,000 people have been forced to flee their homes in Ein El Hilweh. Many sought refuge in UNRWA facilities while others are staying with relatives and friends.
“UNRWA is currently working to find alternatives so that children from the camp and the surrounding areas can go back to school as soon as possible. Children’s education is a right that should never be compromised. We call on those fighting and those with influence over them to vacate the UNRWA schools inside the camp,” concluded Klaus.
Meanwhile, UNRWA has been providing safe spaces and some education material for children and activities so they can have some learning and be able to reconnect with their childhood.
ENDs-
Notes to Editors
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/247777-learning-interrupted-over-11000-palestine-refugee-children




Date: 21 September 2023
Title: United Nations Special Coordinator Wronecka on the International Day of Peace
Content: 21 September 2023


“By its very constitution, Lebanon stands forth as a beacon of inter-faith co-existence,” she said. “This is beyond just the absence of war. It is about peace rooted in a resilient, stable society that guarantees a life in dignity for all its citizens, respect for their rights and freedoms, a relationship of trust and hope in a shared future. To realise this vision for Lebanon, requires political will and resolute action.”

More than four decades ago, the UN General Assembly established the International Day of Peace as an annual reminder of the ideals of peace. This year, the day is being observed world over under a theme calling to couple commitments with actions and respond to global risks with collective solutions.

Noting recent incidents of violence and possession of illegal weapons in the country, the Special Coordinator hailed the efforts of the Lebanese Armed Forces and other state security agencies in maintaining security and stability but stressed that sustainable peace and stability needs more than just security measures.

She emphasized the importance of abiding by the Lebanese Constitution, the Taef Accord and UN Security Council resolutions relevant to Lebanon, particularly resolution 1701 (2006). “Within the framework of resolution 1701, UNIFIL’s efforts in coordination with the parties, have enabled calm and stability along the Blue Line since 2006. However, implementing outstanding obligations under resolution 1701 by the parties will be critical for long-term peace and stability in the region,” the Special Coordinator said.

The Special Coordinator added that the presidential vacuum, the political impasse and a protracted socio-economic and financial crisis were undermining the ability of state institutions to deliver, widening the gap of poverty and inequality, and imperilling the country’s stability. “The deepening political polarization and intransigence is threatening Lebanon’s social cohesion and the sense of belonging among its people. Political leaders must act in the national interest, seek real and practical solutions for a better future for their country,” she said.

As world leaders convene in New York for the 78th UN General Assembly and to renew their commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Special Coordinator hoped for concerted action in Lebanon to implement urgently needed reforms and accelerate progress towards realizing the SDGs.

In all these endeavours and with a commitment to Lebanon’s sovereignty, sustainable peace, stability, development and to leaving no one behind, the Special Coordinator reiterated the UN’s commitment to continue supporting Lebanon and the Lebanese people.

********
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/246858-united-nations-special-coordinator-wronecka-international-day-peace




Date: 21 September 2023
Title: On the International Day of Peace, UNIFIL stands ready to help
Content: 21 September 2023
Hosted by the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) at its headquarters, the ceremony brought together Lebanese political representatives, including Deputy Speaker Elias Bou Saab; local authorities; religious leaders; the Lebanese Armed Forces; security forces; UN officials, including Special Coordinator for Lebanon Joanna Wronecka; and members of the international community.
“As our name says, we are peacekeepers – we keep the peace, but we do not bestow it,” UNIFIL Head of Mission and Force Commander Major General Aroldo Lázaro told the gathered crowd. “We keep the peace that the parties have each given space for, have each worked to maintain in their own ways. But whenever it is threatened, UNIFIL is there, ready to help.”
Major General Lázaro and Brigadier General Mounir Shehade, representing the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF), laid wreaths at the cenotaph in memory of the over 300 UNIFIL peacekeepers who have lost their lives while serving in south Lebanon since 1978.
The UNIFIL head emphasized the mission’s strong partnership with the Lebanese government and armed forces.
“We are here at the invitation of the Lebanese government, who have been our hosts for over forty-five years,” he said. “We coordinate closely with the Lebanese Armed Forces, conducting patrols with them and on our own, to help the government someday exercise its authority over the entirety of this beautiful country.”
He also stressed the importance of restraint and UNIFIL’s role in decreasing tensions.
“The danger of miscalculation remains, a danger that could jeopardize the cessation of hostilities and lead us to conflict,” he said. “It is important for the parties to bear this in mind, and to use our liaison and coordination mechanisms to deconflict situations and decrease tensions. The full implementation of UN Resolution 1701 remains a shared responsibility and the commitment of the parties is necessary to advance towards a long-term solution.”
During the ceremony, military staff officers were awarded with the UN Peacekeeping Medal in recognition of their participation in the mission’s work. As is customary, white doves were released at UNIFIL’s cenotaph to symbolize peace.
UNIFIL also launched a Telegram channel today as another platform for people to receive information about peacekeepers’ work in real time.
The International Day of Peace was established by the UN General Assembly in 1981. It is dedicated to ceasefire and non-violence and is an occasion during which all promote tolerance, justice, and human rights. Each year on this day, the United Nations invites all nations and people to honour a 24-hour cessation of hostilities and to commemorate the day through activities that promote peace.


Link to photos:
https://flic.kr/s/aHBqjAVv4Z

Link to Press Release:
https://bit.ly/451F680
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/246859-international-day-peace-unifil-stands-ready-help




Date: 15 September 2023
Title: New digital platform to upskill Lebanon’s youth and link them to the job market: UNICEF and World Bank launch ‘Forastech’ with Forward MENA
Content: 15 September 2023


UNICEF and the World Bank launched the ‘Forastech’ platform at the Grand Serail in Beirut. Developed under the PROSPECTS program and funded by the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the platform aims to empower, educate, and uplift young people aged between 17 and 32 years from all socio-economic backgrounds in Lebanon. The platform is implemented by Forward MENA, an NGO launched by Beirut Digital District to address the talent gap between education outcomes and labor market needs and develop the digital skillset of youth.

Prime Minister Najib Mikati said “today we celebrate the launch of “Forastech” in Lebanon, an important and necessary initiative to develop the capabilities and skills of young people. In these delicate circumstances that our country is undergoing, it is necessary to direct efforts and investments towards strengthening the skills and developing the capabilities of youth in Lebanon, because Lebanon's lasting wealth is its human capital, especially its youth capacities”. He pointed out that "this project is necessary because it contributes to enhancing job opportunities and improving the economy by developing and enhancing their skills, so that promising young people have greater opportunities to obtain and sustainable jobs."

Under ‘Forastech’, partnerships have also been developed with the Ministries of Education and Higher Education, Social Affairs, Labor, Youth and Sports, as well as the Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform (OMSAR) to ensure the platform caters specifically to the needs of Lebanon's most vulnerable youth.

Ambassador of the Netherlands to Lebanon Hans Peter van der Woude said “I am delighted that through the Dutch funded Prospects Partnership, the World Bank and UNICEF, together with the private tech sector, are delivering 21st century skills for 21st century jobs, for the 21st century youth.”

Through ‘ForasTech’, users can review the market's most in-demand careers and current trends, compare their skills against selected careers to pinpoint a learning development pathway and receive a job-matching scorecard against the career they select. They can also receive recommendations for learning pathways, as well as support and guidance to identify, prepare and apply for jobs that are accessible through the platform itself.

"Our rapid assessment for the year 2022 revealed that 58% of youth in Lebanon are not optimistic about finding a job in the future. In such a time of crisis, 'Forastech' represents a hope of transformation for our youth, a pathway to unlock their full potential, and a unique opportunity in their pursuit of meaningful careers” said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. “Our goal is to align their skills with their aspirations and provide them with access to in-demand skills relevant to today's labor market and beyond. 'Forastech' promotes work-based learning opportunities and career guidance, helping them navigate the challenging terrain of employment."

‘Forastech’ aims to support 5,000 eligible youth in completing free training courses on the platform, out of which 1,000 are expected to complete free certificates, and 200 are expected to secure a work opportunity.  Certificates signed by Microsoft, LinkedIn, and AWS among others will boost their skills and qualifications in specialized areas, most demanded by employers.

“Forastech is more than just a tool. It represents a comprehensive learning journey that builds on unique partnerships with some of the finest local and global tech firms and training providers,” said Jean-Christophe Carret, World Bank Middle East Country Director. “Working closely with the government and stakeholders across various sectors, the World Bank remains strongly committed to support Lebanon's digital transformation and empower its youth to harness the benefits of the digital revolution.”

The ‘Forastech’ platform will cater to a diverse range of young people, whether they seek to upskill in software development, data, artificial intelligence (AI), marketing design, financial administration, customer relationship management (CRM), or content and document processing.

Mouhamad Rabah, President of Forward MENA, explained that ‘Forastech’ aligns with our mission to arm Lebanon's youth with the digital skillset required to seize the opportunities of today and tomorrow. Our partnership with UNICEF and the World Bank allows us to close the gap between education outcomes and the ever-evolving needs of the labor market through state-of-the-art online programs at discounted certifications”.
To learn more about ‘Forastech’ and join us in reshaping the future of Lebanon's youth, please visit Forastech.org.

ENDS

Media contacts
Amira Alameddine
Communication Officer
United Nations Children’s Fund Lebanon
+961 3 922332
aalameddine@unicef.org

Zeina El Khalil
Senior External Affairs Officer
The World Bank
+961 1 963 438
zelkhalil@worldbank.org

Wassim Daniel
Marketing and Partnerships Director
Forward MENA
+961 3 901 590
wassim@forwardmena.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/246806-new-digital-platform-upskill-lebanon%E2%80%99s-youth-and-link-them-job-market-unicef-and-world-bank




Date: 13 September 2023
Title: The United Nations and the Government of Japan inaugurate recently rehabilitated Markazouna Community Centre in Tripoli
Content: 13 September 2023

Fully rehabilitated, the Markazouna Community Centre can now continue to deliver essential services for women and children, including extracurricular activities for children and youth, in a safe and inclusive space. Specific activities include awareness-raising on protection against sexual and gender-based violence, provision of self-defense and positive parenting classes, carpentry workshops and more.

This initiative has been led under the joint project entitled “Multi-sectoral response to the humanitarian crisis in the North of Lebanon through the human security approach” aimed at increasing the security of host and refugee populations living in vulnerable areas of Tripoli. The project generously supported by the Government of Japan through the UNTFHS is implemented by UN-Habitat, UNICEF, UN Women along with implementing partners Al-Fayhaa Association who manage the community centre, the Lebanese Democratic Women’s Gathering and the René Moawad Foundation.

“Japan has placed a strong focus on to the protection and empowerment of vulnerable people and the overall improvement of their livelihoods. Given the challenging circumstances that Lebanon is going through, the need for facilities that foster a supportive and safe environment for the communities in need is heavily increasing, hence the importance of this initiative that Japan chose to support through the UNTFHS,“ said H.E. Magoshi Masayuki, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon.

The prioritization of the rehabilitation and reactivation of the Markazouna Community Centre was reconfirmed through the findings of the neighbourhood profile carried out in Shalfeh neighbourhood, as part of this project. Rehabilitation works included the restoration and upgrading of the whole centre, the playground, providing the centre with renewable energy through solar panels, ensuring full accessibility, providing furniture and electrical equipment.

“Markazouna is an oasis of ambition and confidence, weaving the fabric of development around people, not people around development, providing psychological, educational, and social support,“ said Ahmad Kamareddine, Mayor of Tripoli.
Implemented between April and mid-September 2023, the project has reached more than 5,000 Lebanese and non-Lebanese beneficiaries through the community centre.

“Communities are built on shared values, traditions, culture, and aspirations; and in times of challenge and adversity, it is the solidarity and unity within communities that provide the resilience needed to overcome obstacles,” said the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Mr. Imran Riza in his opening remarks. “The ‘Markazouna Community Centre’ stands as a testament to our commitment to fostering this solidarity, offering a space where community members can come together to not only access essential services but also to foster a renewed sense of belonging and interconnectedness.”
“Our partnership began in 2018 through the Abjad Centre, where we have been able to see how the human security approach promotes the necessary conditions in which humanity can flourish. I am happy to see the Markazouna Community Centre follow the blueprint of the Abjad Centre and serve as a space that supports integrated solutions on key priority areas such as housing, education, health, and social inclusion for communities and those most vulnerable,“ said Mehrnaz Mostafavi, Chief of the United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security.
The project directly contributes to improving the lives of the people in Shalfeh, with the Markazouna Community Centre as a vital and vibrant space for the community and is expected to continue to benefit the residents for many years to come.

-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

About the United Nations International Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/  or follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

About the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women)
UN Women, grounded in the vision of equality enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, works for the elimination of discrimination against women and girls; the empowerment of women; and the achievement of equality between women and men as partners and beneficiaries of development, human rights, humanitarian action and peace and security. Placing women’s rights at the centre of all its efforts, UN Women leads and coordinates United Nations system efforts to ensure that commitments on gender equality and gender mainstreaming translate into action throughout the world. It provides strong and coherent leadership in support of Member States’ priorities and efforts, building effective partnerships with civil society and other relevant actors.

For media enquiries:
Lubna Elmahdy
UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
M: +961 76 615 373
E: lubna.elmahdy1@un.org

Blanche Baz
UNICEF Lebanon
T : +961 3 331874
E: bbaz@unicef.org

Maya Outayek
UNICEF Lebanon
T: +961 70 190634
E:  moutayek@unief.org

Roula Rached
UN Women Lebanon
M: 961 70 351 088
E: roula.rached@unwomen.org



UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/245777-united-nations-and-government-japan-inaugurate-recently-rehabilitated-markazouna-community




Date: 08 September 2023
Title: As clashes resume in South Lebanon Palestine refugee camp, the ongoing takeover of UNRWA schools threatens children’s right to education
Content: 08 September 2023
An urgent call to stop the fighting and vacate the schools.
From the United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Mr. Imran Riza.
BEIRUT, 8 September 2023 – The continuing clashes in the Ein El-Hilweh Palestine Refugee Camp, along with the ongoing takeover of eight UNRWA schools, are preventing the access of nearly 6,000 children who are about to begin their school year.
Education institutions must be safe and neutral spaces, critical for children's learning, well-being, and growth. The use of armed groups of schools amounts to gross violations of both International Human Rights Law and International Humanitarian Law endangering children's rights to a safe learning environment, and jeopardizing their future and the future of their community.
I urge armed groups to stop the fighting in the camp and vacate these schools immediately. I also call for the facilitation of the work of UNRWA and other humanitarian organisations to provide much-needed protection and assistance to families in need in the camp.
The protection of civilians, including children, and their access to school, safe from all forms of violence and exploitation, is a shared responsibility. All concerned actors must take action to protect civilians, facilitate unhindered humanitarian access, and prevent the use of civilian infrastructure for fighting purposes.

-ENDs-

For more information, please contact:
UNRWA:  Mr. Fadi Tayyar, Public Information Officer – UNRWA. Email: f.eltayyar@unrwa.org. Phone: +961-70010129
United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon: Ms. Severine Rey, Head of Office - OCHA. E-mail: rey@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/245420-clashes-resume-south-lebanon-palestine-refugee-camp-ongoing-takeover-unrwa-schools-threatens




Date: 07 September 2023
Title: Rachid Karame Cultural Center in Tripoli rehabilitated with the support of United Nations and European Union
Content: 07 September 2023

The protracted socio-economic, financial, and political crises in Lebanon have severely impacted municipalities, including the Municipality of Tripoli. Amongst many impacts of these crises on the cities in Lebanon, the maintenance and upkeep of historical buildings, such as the Nawfal Palace have suffered, resulting in much damage and structural deterioration.
The library, home to over 10,000 volumes spanning diverse disciplines and including century-old documents, has also suffered. In response and through the Municipal Empowerment Resilience Project, the Municipality of Tripoli proposed a comprehensive restoration project, aimed at revitalizing both the palace and its public library, creating an inclusive cultural space for all.
The rehabilitation of the cultural palace was made possible through the European Union's funding of US$ 145,000. This contribution not only facilitated the restoration work but also equipped the palace with different amenities, including the installation of CCTV cameras, a sound system, a high-definition projector, and other essential equipment that underpinned the center's modernization. A significant accomplishment in this process involved eliminating water leaks, restoring compromised sections, waterproofing, and restoring the historical ceilings, building facades, windows, and walls. A forthcoming second phase of restoration, scheduled for completion in the final quarter of 2023, will culminate in the renovation of remaining parts of the palace's ceiling.
In the ensuing months, an additional activity will hopefully see the palace's library transformed into a dynamic learning hub. Subject to identifying a service provider who can provide this expertise, an automated archiving system will be installed to archive and monitor the usage of the library's books. This endeavor will facilitate access to invaluable content and ensure the safekeeping of historical volumes and documents.
“This morning I signed the decision to form the cultural committees that will be in charge of organizing the events to be held as part of Tripoli the capital of Arab culture in 2024,” said H.E. Minister Mohammad Wissam El-Mortada, Ministry of Culture.
“Due to the considerable costs of restoration, the municipality sought support from international organizations, including UNDP and UN-Habitat, with funding from the European Union. Through successful collaboration, the palace's rehabilitation became a reality. Thank God, the project was implemented to very high standards, and everyone who visits the palace, including foreign embassies, is amazed by its beauty. Because the quality of the rehabilitation was excellent,” said Mayor Ahmad Kamareddine, Municipality of Tripoli.
“The renovation of the Nawfal Palace is an impactful intervention that will help to preserve a vital cultural space for the city of Tripoli. I am grateful to the Municipality of Tripoli for their partnership in this project, and to the European Union for their generous funding. I am confident that this project will help to boost the cultural and economic vitality of Tripoli, and the transformation of this palace serves as a testament to the importance of safeguarding cultural heritage in cities across Lebanon to maintain their historical richness and preserve it for future generations,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon.
“Today's event is a chance to celebrate Tripoli's rich cultural heritage. We take pride in contributing to restoring this historic place and connecting Lebanon's past with its present needs. This space is open to all, serving as a hub for knowledge, culture, and gatherings, bringing people in their diversity together.” said Alessia Squarcella, Deputy Head of Cooperation, Team Leader – Economy, Green Deal and Local Development, the European Union Delegation to Lebanon.
Located in Tripoli, the Rachid Karame Cultural Center, known as the Nawfal Palace, is rich with a history dating back to 1898. Transformed into a cultural center in 1967, the place includes offices, a central hall for events, and a public library. Home to an invaluable collection of over 10,000 volumes spanning diverse subjects, including century-old texts, the library attracts learners and explorers alike. The cultural palace is open to public, students seeking collaborative spaces for group study, and overall communities. Already a hub for many organizations and youth groups, the palace accommodates meetings, trainings, and events that enrich the community fabric.

END

For more information please contact:
Aline Kiwan, MERP Media and Communication Officer, at aline.kiwan@un.org, mobile 03-294070

Note to editors

About the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP)
MERP is a joint project by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat). The Project is being implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MoIM) and funded by the European Union (EU). The project aims to strengthen the long-term resilience of subnational authorities in Lebanon as well as host communities and displaced persons affected by the Syrian crisis. Learn more about MERP at UNDP website and UN-Habitat website.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Learn more at www.unhabitat.org/lebanon or follow us on Twitter at @UNHabitatLB, on Facebook at UN-Habitat Lebanon and on Instagram at UNHabitatLB

About the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet.
Learn more at www.lb.undp.org or follow on Twitter at @UNDP_Lebanon, on Facebook at UNDP Lebanon and on Instagram at UNDP_Lebanon

About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon.
Learn more on the work of the EU in Lebanon or follow on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at @EUinLebanon
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/245077-rachid-karame-cultural-center-tripoli-rehabilitated-support-united-nations-and-european




Date: 31 August 2023
Title: UNIFIL’S MANDATE RENEWED
Content: 31 August 2023
The resolution reaffirms UNIFIL's authorization to conduct its operations independently while continuing to coordinate with the Government of Lebanon, in respect to Lebanese sovereigntyز

The ultimate goal under resolution 2695, as under resolution 1701, remains a permanent ceasefire and long-term solution to the conflict.

***
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/244316-unifil%E2%80%99s-mandate-renewed




Date: 21 August 2023
Title: On World Humanitarian Day, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Lebanon honors five local organizations for their humanitarian work
Content: 21 August 2023

Stressing the primary role of affected communities during crises, the UN Humanitarian Coordinator in Lebanon and the UNOCHA celebrated the occasion by presenting and honoring the work of five local organizations in Lebanon: Egna Legna, the Lebanese Red Cross, the Lebanese Union for People with Physical Disabilities, Women-Now for Development and Women’s Programs Association. Representatives from the five honored organizations underscored in their statement the significance of this recognition, reaffirming their commitment to principled humanitarian action to serve Lebanon's most vulnerable communities, including Lebanese, refugees, migrants, and people with disabilities.

The ceremony commemorated the 20th anniversary of the tragic bombing at the United Nations compound in Baghdad on 19 August 2003, and celebrated humanitarian workers around the world for their unwavering commitment to deliver for the communities they serve, no matter who, no matter where and #NoMatterWhat.

In her opening remarks, the UNOCHA Head of Office in Lebanon, Ms. Séverine Rey paid tribute to humanitarian workers killed in the line of duty and reaffirmed the principles underpinning humanitarian action, calling for the protection, well-being and dignity of all people affected by crises, and for the safety and security of the aid workers who support them: “Attacks on aid workers and facilities – as attacks on civilians – are violation of international law and perpetrators must be held accountable. We are #NotATarget. We are here for one sole purpose: saving and protecting lives.”
Commending the commitment of all humanitarians in Lebanon, Mr. Imran Riza said, “Today, we are here to recognize and honor the dedication of humanitarian workers in Lebanon, particularly those, the most numerous, who are from the very communities they serve. Through their engagement, they show us that despite the challenges, a remarkable sense of shared humanity continues to prevail in Lebanon and that many resourcefully seek out solutions for the benefit of all. They bring hope for a better future in Lebanon. Humanitarian action is at its best when driven and led by the very people it serves – as the people themselves must be the architects of their own recovery."

In his statement, the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Saade Chami, emphasized that, “Until economic recovery is achieved, and the country is put on the right track, it is incumbent upon us to rally behind humanitarian initiatives and cultivate a sense of unity. Whether we contribute materially, advocate for policy reform, or simply foster a culture of compassion, every action holds the potential to effect meaningful change. [..] It is within our grasp to salvage Lebanon, endowed as it is with abundant human capital, despite recent massive migration, a wealth of talents, decent resources, and people known for their entrepreneurial spirit and determination to succeed.”

Background
On 19 August 2003, a bomb attack on the United Nations Headquarter in Baghdad, Iraq, killed 22 aid workers, including the UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello. Five years later, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution designating 19 August as World Humanitarian Day (WHD). Each year, WHD focuses on a theme, bringing together partners from across the humanitarian system to advocate for the protection, well-being and dignity of people affected by crises, and for the safety and security of aid workers who support them.

For more Information, please contact:
- Ms. Severine Rey, Head of Office – UNOCHA Lebanon. E-mail: rey@un.org
- Kawsar Fahs, Senior Communications Officer – UNOCHA Lebanon. E-mail : kawsar.fahs@un.org phone: +96181107870
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/242907-world-humanitarian-day-united-nations-office-coordination-humanitarian-affairs-ocha-lebanon




Date: 16 August 2023
Title: UNICEF remains committed to children’s right to education in Lebanon and urges national investment to ensure livable wages for teachers and education staff to guarantee uninterrupted learning for all children
Content: 16 August 2023

Throughout the year, MEHE has shown efforts to strengthen partnership governance and integrate TREF’s accountability and transparency principles, which have triggered reform in governance, data management and financial management across schools and regional education offices.
In line with these reforms, UNICEF has not channelled any funds to MEHE directly since the 2021/2022 scholastic year. Instead, UNICEF has been transferring payments directly to teachers, education staff, schools and regional offices. All these payments were made based on verified attendance of teachers and students, as per TREF principles. Specifically, in response to the growing learning crisis, UNICEF, through generous support from international partners, is spending over USD70M during the scholastic year 2022- 2023 to critically support education and public schools:
Nevertheless, given the ongoing financial crisis, there is a danger that the coming scholastic year will face further learning disruptions if teachers and educational staff are not paid a liveable wage. The Government of Lebanon must prioritize mobilizing budget resources for education to ensure public schools are open in October for all children. Moreover, UNICEF’s support for children cannot replace, but only complement the Government’s investment in education.
With this, we commend MEHE’s efforts to actively lobby with the Parliament, Ministry of Finance and Office of the Prime Minister to prioritize education and call on all stakeholders in Lebanon to allocate sufficient government funds to ensure schools stay open for all children. The children of Lebanon cannot afford further disruptions to their learning due to school closures risking a whole generation falling behind.
UNICEF and international partners remain committed to Children’s Right to Education in Lebanon by supporting the Government of Lebanon in providing educational services to all children.
#####

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/

For media queries please contact:
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unicef.org +961 70 190 634
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/241646-unicef-remains-committed-children%E2%80%99s-right-education-lebanon-and-urges-national-investment




Date: 10 August 2023
Title: UN inaugurates municipal finance solutions to tackle financial challenges amidst the current Lebanese crisis
Content: 10 August 2023
In 2021-2022, the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP), a joint initiative between UNDP and UN-Habitat, conducted 11 municipal finance assessments covering 9 municipalities and 2 unions of municipalities. These assessments provided a better understanding of existing municipal finance systems, the challenges municipalities and unions face, and the potential pathways towards recovery.

The assessment underscored the obstacles posed by the current crisis to local governments, impeding their ability to collect local taxes and fees and effectively plan, budget for, and deliver key public basic services to their communities. In addition, the assessments pointed towards required municipal finance solutions for the 11 assessed municipalities and unions.

During three regional events held in Matn, Al-Fayhaa and Tyre regions on 3, 8 and 10 August respectively, MERP inaugurated the municipal finance and administrative solutions that have been implemented at the 11 assessed municipalities and unions. The solutions strengthen administrative and financial management, budgeting, and reporting at municipal level, including through digitization, the upgrading of IT systems, provision of soft and hardware (including servers, computers, printers, scanners, as well as data and back-up systems and back-up energy solutions), and the development of websites. Later this year, the municipalities and unions will receive additional hands-on coaching and training on the delivered solutions and hardware.

The municipal finance assessments also informed the development of a policy report, which highlights priorities for national policy and legislation reform to enhance municipal finances particularly within the context of the current economic crisis. The report was launched during a national event in May 2022, under the patronage of the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities. During the regional events, the report was launched and disseminated at the local level, in both Arabic and English languages.

“We are working on a law to adjust the municipal fees through two law proposals so municipalities will be able to increase their revenues through fees. The two law proposals should be signed by Parliament Members to take their formal process.” said Judge Elie Maalouf, Court of Audit.

“The step taken by the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project is the first of its kind to be set on the right track regarding municipal finances assessment in general, without which the municipalities will not be able to persist amidst the ongoing crisis.”

“The paragraph regarding the recommendations for the unions of municipalities, Article 9, is very remarkable in the report. It states that unions of municipalities should prepare immediate plans to improve the collection of payments owed by the members of the union. This recommendation may be the only solution to overcome the crisis that the Urban Community Al-Fayhaa is going through.”, said Eng. Dima Homsi, Director of Urban Community Al-Fayhaa.

“Municipalities are barely spending on operational daily expenses to keep going, so we are not having the chance to think development on new capital investments.” Mayor Nicole Gmayel, Bickfaya-Mhaydsseh Municipality.

“Against the backdrop of the economic crisis, enhancing municipal finance systems is a first step towards stability. It supports greater efficiency in municipal operations while simultaneously fostering transparency and accountability—vital elements in enhancing community trust. Moreover, strong municipal finance systems are a prerequisite for diversifying and expanding own income sources. This will support municipalities in the delivery of basic services, ultimately benefiting their communities.” said Marija De Wijn, Chief Technical Advisor, Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP).

END

For more information please contact:
Aline Kiwan, MERP Media and Communication Officer, at aline.kiwan@un.org, mobile 03-294070
You can download the Municipal Finance Policy Advocacy report from the following link: Municipal Finance Assessments | Policy Advocacy Report - Lebanon | UN-Habitat (unhabitat.org)

Note to editors
About the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP)
MERP is a joint project by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat). The Project is being implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MoIM) and funded by the European Union (EU). The project aims to strengthen the long-term resilience of subnational authorities in Lebanon as well as host communities and displaced persons affected by the Syrian crisis. Learn more about MERP at UNDP website and UN-Habitat website.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Learn more at www.unhabitat.org/lebanon or follow us on Twitter at @UNHabitatLB, on Facebook at UN-Habitat Lebanon and on Instagram at UNHabitatLB

About the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet.
Learn more at www.lb.undp.org or follow on Twitter at @UNDP_Lebanon, on Facebook at UNDP Lebanon and on Instagram at UNDP_Lebanon

About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon.
Learn more on the work of the EU in Lebanon or follow on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at @EUinLebanon
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/241278-un-inaugurates-municipal-finance-solutions-tackle-financial-challenges-amidst-current




Date: 25 July 2023
Title: Japan and UNOPS provide urgent energy support to critical lifesaving services in Lebanon
Content: 25 July 2023
H.E. Mr. Masayuki Magoshi, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon said: ”This initiative could not have been more timely given the ongoing challenges in the health and water sectors across the country. The project aims to alleviate the daily struggles of the most vulnerable people by solar energy, which is sustainable, reliable and cost effective power supply. Japan, through such projects, is renewing its unwavering commitment to help Lebanon advance on its development and growth path.”
H.E. Mr. Walid Fayyad, the Minister of Energy and Water, noted that funding from Japan is important to help catalyze clean and sustainable energy in Lebanon. Recent studies have shown that electricity currently accounts for more than 75% of the operational costs of the four water establishments (WE) responsible for managing Lebanon’s water resources. These WEs are unable to cover their operational expenses in light of the currency devaluation, but are forced, in the absence of national electricity, to rely on private diesel-powered generators to power their water producing facilities. He added that  this initiative will draw in more investment in renewable energy in Lebanon, and consequently support the recovery of the water sector, notably water establishments which have long suffered, risked closure and water cuts due to the prolonged energy crisis.
"The collaboration between the Lebanese Ministry of Public Health, Japan and UNOPS in the solar energy initiatives is of paramount importance. In a country grappling with economic challenges and an unreliable power supply, this partnership holds the potential to transform the healthcare landscape where public hospitals can be equipped with sustainable and uninterrupted power sources, ensuring essential medical services are not compromised during frequent electricity shortages. The installation of solar systems provides a reliable and environmentally friendly energy solution that alleviates the burden on the national grid while reducing carbon emissions and paying the way for a greener and healthier Lebanon.” said Mr. Hicham Fawaz, Head of the Hospitals and Dispensaries Department at the Ministry of Public Health.
Lebanon has faced multiple socio-economic crises in recent years. The crises have significantly impacted the provision of basic services for vulnerable communities and people. The reduced electricity supply has significantly affected the operation and functioning of health and water facilities. Muhammad Usman Akram, Representative and Director of UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman, said: “The new initiative will contribute to alleviating the impacts of acute shortage of electricity supply. Inadequate availability of electricity is hindering the continuation of critical social services. Thanks to funding from the Government of Japan, we are able to continue supporting life-saving services.”
The project mainly contributes to SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities.
- END -
About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral and multilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/241132-japan-and-unops-provide-urgent-energy-support-critical-lifesaving-services-lebanon




Date: 13 July 2023
Title: UN-Habitat and Rebirth Beirut join forces to improve the city’s urban infrastructure and environment
Content: 13 July 2023

The MoU will facilitate joint work between UN-Habitat and Rebirth Beirut to identify and implement possible opportunities that will enhance Beirut’s urban environment for the benefit of the community, while mainstreaming an urban cultural agenda. A series of initiatives will advocate for the key role that Lebanon’s cities play in the future recovery and development of the country.
"We are very pleased and honoured to do this step today. Our partnership with UN-Habitat marks a significant turning point in our mission to revive and transform Beirut. By working together, we can harness our collective strengths and resources to create a city that is not only resilient but also promotes the well-being and prosperity of its residents. Together, we can pave the way for a brighter future for Beirut," said Gaby Fernaine, Founder and President of Rebirth Beirut.
“We are delighted to join efforts with Rebirth Beirut, who have in a short period of time contributed to important urban recovery efforts in the city of Beirut, in addition to reviving the urban cultural scene. Through this partnership, UN-Habitat looks forward to maximising joint partnership contributing to the critical recovery of Lebanese cities, especially Beirut,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
Since its establishment, UN-Habitat Lebanon has been working effectively with partners and urban planning actors at the community, national and international levels to develop and implement programmes and interventions across the country that contribute to making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.

-ENDS-

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

About Rebirth Beirut
Rebirth Beirut is a Lebanese NGO whose mission is to revive Beirut and restore hope to its people, mostly affected by the blast and recent economic crisis, aiming for economic renewal and recovery in the city.
Rebirth Beirut actively contributes to the city's rehabilitation by illuminating its streets and has, to date, lit more than 100 streets, 9 main avenues, 4 squares and a tunnel in Beirut. It has also rehabilitated 15 traffic light intersections in the capital on solar power. In addition, Rebirth Beirut promotes established and emerging artists through cultural, artistic and musical events.

For media enquiries:
Lubna Elmahdy
UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
M: +961 81 512629
E: lubna.elmahdy1@un.org

Name: Samar Hawa
Rebirth Beirut
M: +961 3 217043
E: shawa@rebirthbeirut.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/239486-un-habitat-and-rebirth-beirut-join-forces-improve-city%E2%80%99s-urban-infrastructure-and




Date: 10 July 2023
Title: United Nations and European Union Join Forces to Strengthen Al-Fayhaa Fire Brigade and Enhance Community Safety in Northern Lebanon
Content: 10 July 2023

As first line responders, the men and women of the fire brigade play a crucial role in ensuring public safety of Al-Fayhaa residents. In 2021 alone, the fire brigade conducted nearly 1,200 missions, averaging 97 per month, responding to fires, conducting rescue operations, and providing transportation to hospitals for patients. However, the work of the fire brigade was severely limited due to a crumbling building, inadequate equipment, and obsolete vehicles. In response, the Urban Community Al-Fayhaa proposed a comprehensive project to strengthen the fire brigade, including the rehabilitation of the building, procurement of vehicles and essential equipment, training and capacity building for fire brigade staff, and the implementation of a pilot project to enhance public safety in the area.

As a first key milestone, the renovation of the fire brigade building was recently completed. The works included fixing water leakages and addressing related damages, installing proper plumbing and electrical networks, and installing a solar system on the roof to ensure continued operations. In addition, the building now boasts fully equipped rooms, complete with electrical appliances, cabinets, beds, mattresses, and a renovated burn treatment room. 48 fire fighters underwent specialized training in first aid and advanced firefighting techniques, and on mapping and inspection of buildings in four selected pilot areas to enhance at later stages public safety in the four cities members of the union. Further training on firefighting techniques for civil defense personnel is scheduled for July 2023, benefiting 15 first responders.

Later this year, the fire brigade will receive crucial equipment and vehicles to strengthen response capabilities during fire incidents and rescue operations across the four cities of the union. This includes firefighting trucks, escape ladders, portable road safety barriers, fire extinguishers, uniforms, and sports equipment.

“I am here with you to inaugurate the Fire Brigade building, which is a developmental project. Although this project focuses on the material, we assure you that we will focus more on the people by supporting the Fire Brigade personnel any way we can,” said H.E. Judge Bassam Mawlawi, Minister of Interior and Municipalities representing the Prime Minister.
“The new center is more than just a building, it is a haven where firefighters can gather, train and prepare for the upcoming challenges. This center will serve as a hub of knowledge and a place to enhance skills and competences since it provides firefighters with state-of-the-art facilities, advanced equipment, and innovative training programs, ensuring that they have the necessary resources to perform their duties with the utmost professionalism,” said Mr. Hassan Ghomrawi, Head of Urban Community Al-Fayhaa and Mayor of Beddawi Municipality.
“Firefighters are on the frontline during emergencies and crises putting their lives at risk to save others. This project has fully rehabilitated and supported the Urban Community of Al-Fayhaa Fire Brigade with the training, tools, equipment, services and improved living conditions the firefighters need to protect their community from fires and emergencies. This project is essential to strengthening the fire brigade’s capacity to respond to fire incidents and rescue operations in the four cities of the union that are home to over 450,000 residents. It will help to protect the lives and property of the residents of Al-Fayhaa and the surrounding areas while contributing to enhancing the resilience of cities in Lebanon," said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon.

“The EU through MERP and other bilateral projects supports good governance, resilience and accountable local authorities and their host/refugee populations through an emphasis on capacity development for holistic, area-based planning, service delivery and local socio-economic development. Our support to municipalities is also indirect through water/waste water programmes, education, health, social response or environment sector support,” said Alessia Squarcella, Deputy Head of Cooperation, Team Leader – Economy, Green Deal and Local Development, the European Union Delegation to Lebanon.
The rehabilitation of the fire brigade department falls under the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP), a joint initiative between UNDP and UN-Habitat, generously funded by the European Union (EU) through its Madad fund.

END

For more information please contact:
Aline Kiwan, MERP Media and Communication Officer, at aline.kiwan@un.org, mobile 03-294070

Note to editors
About the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP)
MERP is a joint project by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat). The Project is being implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MoIM) and funded by the European Union (EU). The project aims to strengthen the long-term resilience of subnational authorities in Lebanon as well as host communities and displaced persons affected by the Syrian crisis. Learn more about MERP at UNDP website and UN-Habitat website.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Learn more at www.unhabitat.org/lebanon or follow us on Twitter at @UNHabitatLB, on Facebook at UN-Habitat Lebanon and on Instagram at UNHabitatLB

About the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet.
Learn more at www.lb.undp.org or follow on Twitter at @UNDP_Lebanon, on Facebook at UNDP Lebanon and on Instagram at UNDP_Lebanon

About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon.
Learn more on the work of the EU in Lebanon or follow on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at @EUinLebanon
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/239203-united-nations-and-european-union-join-forces-strengthen-al-fayhaa-fire-brigade-and-enhance




Date: 07 July 2023
Title: UN-Habitat and Ministry of Environment launch nationwide project to reduce marine litter and plastic pollution
Content: 07 July 2023
Funded by the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, and Nuclear Safety at a budget of EUR 4,574,096 and implemented in partnership with the Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy and Technische Universität Berlin, the ReMaL project aims to enhance municipal solid waste management and resource efficiency in coastal Lebanon to reduce marine litter in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea. Specifically, by supporting coastal unions of municipalities and the national government in the implementation of the Integrated Solid Waste Management Law of Lebanon − Law No. 80 (2018).

“The launch of the ReMaL project is a step in the right direction for the environmental recovery of Lebanon. In line with the Ministry of Environment’s vision for the protection and preservation of Lebanon’s natural environment, and the roadmap for integrated solid-waste management, the project will address a major challenge facing Lebanon – particularly in coastal areas to reduce marine litter and plastic pollution. ReMaL project will help in protecting our coastline, our marine life, and our people. Through the project, the Ministry of Environment will work with UN-Habitat to engage municipal authorities and local communities to devise local plans to reduce marine litter and manage their waste in an integrated manner. This will help in making Lebanon's coastal cities cleaner and healthier," said H.E. Dr. Nasser Yassin, Lebanese Minister of Environment.

The ReMaL project will work across several interventions including data collection on waste to inform and establish a National Online Waste Observatory to support evidence-based decision making; development of Integrated Solid Waste Management Plans for coastal service zones; and implementation of pilot projects to improve waste management and prevent marine litter.

“Waste constitutes one of the main problems of Lebanon and its people, and it will remain a challenge for generations to come. To preserve this beautiful country – its mountains and beaches, its forests and plains, its cities and villages, its people and its animals – a huge effort is necessary. I hope that the presence of all of you here today will play out into real action, into long-term commitment, into actual, sustainable improvement. In my term as ambassador to Lebanon, I have been at many such launches and kick-off meetings, but more important is to see the outcome everyone commits themselves to at the start. This project is about a direct, immediate impact on people’s everyday lives. I truly hope that we will see this positive impact, that we can witness progress and success in working on this project,” said H.E. Andreas Kindl, Ambassador of Germany to Lebanon.

As part of this three-year-long project a nationwide awareness-raising campaign on sustainable waste management and marine litter prevention will be rolled-out. The findings of this project will inform the formulation of policy recommendations for national institutions on waste management and marine litter in an effort to improve and build capacities of national frameworks and actors involved.

“In the complex multi-faceted crisis facing Lebanon, which continues to challenge and further exacerbate the country’s humanitarian and development trajectory, it is very important that coordinated steps and measures are taken to prevent further deterioration of an already fragile natural ecosystem. Protecting the marine environment along the Lebanese coast is critical as it provides climate regulation, food, jobs, livelihoods, and socio-economic progress. By bringing together multiple partners, from national to local authorities, international to local organizations, academia, private sector institutions, and local communities – using a bottom-up localized and area-based approach, the ‘ReMaL project’ provides an important opportunity for the UN to reaffirm its commitment to help steer Lebanon back onto the path of sustainable development,” said Mr. Imran Riza, the United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, in his opening remarks.

UN-Habitat and partners will work with thirteen unions of municipalities and respective communities throughout the course of the project to ensure that the project’s planned interventions are targeted and based on the needs of their communities to promote uptake, ownership and sustainability.

“Lebanon’s main cities sit along the nation’s coastline. These cities are major contributors to plastic pollution and marine litter. They are therefore also part of the solution to fostering and identifying sustainable solutions to the collection and management of solid waste. By working together with national and local authorities and communities through the ReMaL project, we can set long-term solid waste management practices, clean up our coastlines, protect our marine life, and promote a more sustainable and green future for Lebanon,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.

Since its establishment in 2006, UN-Habitat Lebanon has been working effectively with partners and urban planning actors at the community, national and international levels to develop and implement programmes and interventions across the country that contribute to making cities and human settlements green, inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable

-ENDS-

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

For media enquiries:
Layal Abou Antoun
UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
M: +961 81 512629
E: layal.abouantoun@un.org

Saad Elias
Ministry of Environment
M: +961 3 777 855
E: selias66@hotmail.om
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/239156-un-habitat-and-ministry-environment-launch-nationwide-project-reduce-marine-litter-and




Date: 23 June 2023
Title: EU invests 3.7 million Euro to support Green and Circular Economy in Lebanon  through a project implemented by UNIDO
Content: 23 June 2023

On June 22, 2023, UNIDO presented the 2CIRCULAR roadmap to EU representatives, UN agencies, ministries representatives, and various stakeholders from the food and beverage sector. In addition, representatives from national and international financing institutions, development organizations, service and technology providers, and academia were present.
The “2CIRCULAR Action” Event, was held from 10:00 am to 13:30 pm at the Movenpick hotel. Several presentations, a Q&A session on eligibility criteria for businesses to access support, and the opportunity for securing additional funding for circular and green production were heard by the diversity of stakeholders and targeted beneficiaries. In total, the 2CIRCULAR project aims to partner with over 50 food and beverage companies to create momentum for green and circular production in Lebanon. As part of the project intervention, a total of EUR 280,000 will be awarded as in-kind grants of 15k and 40k to 10 companies who can demonstrate their ability to become resource efficient and Circular Economy champions in Lebanon.
The project, 2CIRCULAR, builds on the successful experiences of 15 Lebanese companies already supported by UNIDO under the EU-funded MED TEST program thus advancing investment into resource efficiency and cleaner production techniques as a cost cutting measure. Focusing on the food and beverage industry, 2Circular will go a step further and support the development of 5 innovative circular business models and facilitate access to finance for Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
The proven UNIDO methodology will enable partner companies to achieve significant cost savings, higher competitiveness, reduced environmental footprints, and improved access to international markets. Investments in low-risk, short-term innovation, particularly for cutting costs, is considered a key for countries to emerge from economic downturns.
Lebanon also faces significant environmental challenges, including air and water pollution, and waste management issues. The project seeks to address these challenges by supporting the adoption of sustainable business practices and encouraging circular models that prioritize cutting costs and environmental footprint resource efficiency and waste reduction.
The project is expected to have a significant impact on Lebanon's economy, generating new jobs and increasing competitiveness in the global market. It will also contribute positively to the environment by reducing waste and pollution and promoting the use of renewable and green energy sources.
"2 Circular project builds on the successful experiences in industrial resource efficiency piloted by UNIDO in the region through the EU funded MED TEST projects. Through MED TEST, UNIDO has supported 164 industrial enterprises, which have jointly achieved economic savings of 49.5 million EUR per year through investments with average payback-period of less than 1.5 years. Beneficiary companies reduced on average 30% of their energy 27% of water and 8% in materials consumption; this generated a reduction of 217.000 tons/year of CO2 emissions and 24.000 tons/year of solid waste.  2Circular upscales such successes by targeting 50 Lebanese industrial enterprises including start-ups of viable circular business models, to pursue a path of green growth and enabling carbon trade in the long run”.
Mr. Emmanuel KALENZI, UNIDO Regional Representative
"The European Union remains committed to promoting an enabling environment for private sector development, including business support services, investment, and innovation, spurring entrepreneurship, and encouraging SMEs to grow and believes the private sector is - and will continue to be - a pivotal contributor to the economic recovery of Lebanon."
Mrs. Alessandra Viezzer, EU Head of Cooperation
"The 2Circular project is at the heart of the priorities of the Ministry of Industry as it supports sustainable industrial development and strengthens the competitiveness and resilience of a key industrial sector by upscaling the adoption of resource efficient and cleaner production practices in industrial companies, fostering the transition of industry to circular business models in Lebanon.”
H.E. Mr. George Bouchikian, Minister of Industry
“Nowadays, redesigning human systems for the good of the future generation has become a must. We can translate this by adopting circular practices with the aim of durability, reuse, remanufacturing, and recycling; such policies have become prerequisites to maintaining alignment with the new international rules governing the trading system. Thus, we believe that "The Private Sector Transition to a Green and Circular Economy" will play a vital role in applying the objectives of the circular economy in terms of sustainable and inclusive trade and development, which will help resource efficiency, job creation, innovation, and collaboration. In a nutshell, looping Lebanese SMEs (F&B sector) into the circular economy could help them mitigate supply chain disruption, lower costs, and open up new markets.”
H.E. Mr. Amin Salam, Minister of Economy and Trade
“Despite the challenges our country is currently confronting, the project addresses vital aspects such as the sustainable utilization of resources, energy efficiency, and the development of technical capabilities. Furthermore, it represents a notable achievement in the ongoing partnership between the ministry and UNIDO, aimed at reducing environmental impacts and fostering a green economy”.
H.E. Mr. Nasser Yassin, Minister of Environment
“Today we are at a new dawn in terms of shaping new economic prospects for Lebanon, and the circular economy business model should be at the heart of it. In fact, we should view the crisis as an opportunity to turn things around from common mainstream practices. Although progress towards recovery after the severe and prolonged economic crisis is very slow, still the vibrant private sector in Lebanon is taking the lead in the country’s revival. As such, building the right infrastructure in terms of zero waste, reduced carbon footprints, and optimized resources efficiency is key for a sustainable economic recovery”.
H.E. Mr. Youssef El Khalil, Minister of Finance
“By operating in a resource-efficient manner using renewables, they reduce their costs, reduce the impact of price fluctuations of production factors and hence, gain competitive advantages and increase their profits.”
Dr. Nabil Fahed, Federation of the Chambers of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture of Lebanon
“2Circular project is a great reflection of ALI’s vision & mission.”
Mr. Ibrahim Mallah, Association of Lebanese Industrialists

The project will be implemented until the end of 2025 and will undergo close monitoring and evaluation to ensure its objectives are met. For more information, follow the UNIDO Lebanon’s Facebook and Twitter accounts, and UNIDO YouTube Channel.

For more information, please contact the 2Circular Project Manager:
Natalie Degger, UNIDO
Email: n.degger@unido.org

Project Title: Transition to a Green and Circular Economy in Lebanon (2CIRCULAR)
Funding Agency: European Union (EU)
Implementing Agency: United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)
Country: Lebanon
Budget: 3.7 million EUR
Duration: 2022 -2025
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/238149-eu-invests-37-million-euro-support-green-and-circular-economy-lebanon-through-project




Date: 22 June 2023
Title: Second national Steering Committee convened on the “Resilient Water Solutions Against Climate Change” project in Lebanon.
Content: 22 June 2023
UN-Habitat, ESCWA, and UNICEF gather Lebanese Ministries of Environment and Agriculture with local authorities and project partners to discuss water-related climate adaptation measures in Lebanon.

In his statement, Yassin stressed the importance of finding alternative sources of water while preserving biodiversity. “We need to manage water resources wisely and evaluate all potential solutions. In this context, this project is very important because it promotes the use of non-conventional water sources such as treated wastewater and grey water,” he said.
For his part, Al Hajj Hassan said that investing in development and equality in Lebanon has become a priority given the current crises in the country. “Climate change has brought its share of challenges all over the world, including in the Arab region. This project is important because it promotes the use of non-conventional water sources. Lebanon is rich in water so we must learn to manage our resources sustainably, and this can only be achieved through such partnerships,” he added.
The project aims to provide innovative measures to promote climate change resilience with a focus on ensuring climate change and gender mainstreamed urban planning. Financed by the Adaptation Fund, the project also encourages the sustainable management and use of water resources through promoting water-efficient irrigation methods and permaculture, in addition to using non-conventional water sources, such as treated wastewater and harvested rainwater. In Lebanon, the city of Zahle and the wider Zahle District are the project’s targeted areas due to recurrent droughts, extreme heat and a shift in rainfall patterns which have recently become major concerns for these areas.
“The project clearly aligns with Water Action Decade priorities internationally and regionally. It also places emphasis on working at the community level to strengthen awareness and capacity building around water scarcity issues,” said ESCWA Deputy Executive Secretary Mounir Tabet.
“Urban areas and cities are major contributors to global warming and climate change. In Lebanon, urban areas are rapidly expanding without the necessary planning needed to ensure that green agricultural lands and water resources are well-protected. We hope that this project can prove to be a reference for other regions across the country to improve sustainable water resource management that builds community resilience to climate change while providing new economic opportunities amidst the crises that Lebanon is facing,” said Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme Taina Christiansen.
The project will later this year convene a regional Steering Committee meeting. Major project stakeholders from Lebanon and Jordan will gather to discuss regional contextualities of the project. They will also formulate a strategy that optimizes the regional exchange of information and experiences between the two countries and across the Arab region; and promote the upscaling, replication and sustainability of the project.

About the “Resilient Water Solutions Against Climate Change in Jordan and Lebanon” project
The "Resilient water solutions against climate change in Jordan and Lebanon" project is funded by the Adaptation Fund and implemented by UN-Habitat in partnership with ESCWA and UNICEF in Lebanon and national executing partners in the targeted countries. The project aims to increase the resilience of communities to climate change-related water challenges in Lebanon and Jordan.
About UN-Habitat
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States, and works on enhancing regional integration.
About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/ or follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.

For media inquiries:
Ms. Layal Abou Antoun, UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
E: layal.abouantoun@un.org

Ms. Maryam Sleiman, ESCWA
M: +961-81-769888
E: sleiman2@un.org

Ms. Rania Harb, ESCWA
M: +961-70-008-879
E: harb1@un.org

Ms. Blanche Baz, UNICEF
M: +961-70190634
E: bbaz@unicef.org

Ms. Maya Outayek, UNICEF
M: +961- 70190634
E: moutayek@unicef.org

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/237734-second-national-steering-committee-convened-%E2%80%9Cresilient-water-solutions-against-climate




Date: 20 June 2023
Title: Lebanon’s crisis stretches families’ coping ability to breaking point - UNICEF Survey
Content: 20 June 2023
The results of the survey paint a dramatic picture of the situation as the crisis continues to escalate for a fourth consecutive year, with devastating consequences for children.
“The compounding crises facing the children of Lebanon are creating an unbearable situation – breaking their spirit, damaging their mental health and threatening to wipe out their hope for a better future,” said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF’s Representative in Lebanon.

The report, based on UNICEF’s latest rapid assessment of children’s lives, shows that almost 9 in 10 households do not have enough money to buy essentials, forcing them to resort to extreme measures to cope with the crisis.

The report shows that:
Despite these desperate coping measures, many families cannot afford the quantity and variety of food they require, and additionally cannot afford the expenses involved in getting health treatment.
Significantly, the crisis is also driving up period poverty, with just over half of respondents saying women and girls in the household do not have enough female hygiene items, such as sanitary pads, and almost all of them saying they are now too expensive.

Many caregivers admit the bleak situation causes them to suffer persistent stress, resulting in feelings of anger towards their children. Six in 10 felt they wanted to shout at their children and 2 in 10 felt they wanted to hit them in the previous two weeks to when the survey was taken.

The rising tensions, coupled with the deprivations, are taking a severe toll on children’s mental health. Almost 7 in 10 caregivers said their children seemed anxious, nervous or worried, and almost half said their children were very sad or feeling depressed every week.

Gaps in the national social protection system and limited access to essential services, particularly education and health make it even more difficult for families to cope with the crisis.
UNICEF is urging the Government to swiftly implement the recently produced National Social Protection Strategy (NSPS), which includes plans to provide social grants for those who need them most, including vulnerable families raising children. UNICEF also urges the Government to invest in education through reforms and national policies to ensure that all children – but particularly the most vulnerable children have access to inclusive and quality education.

“Increasing investment in essential services for children – critically education, health and social protection will help mitigate the impact of the crisis, ensure the well-being and survival of future generations and contribute to economic recovery,” said Beigbeder.

Note to editors
Read our report: ‘Future on Hold: Lebanon worsening crisis is breaking children's spirits’

UNICEF CFRAs are carried out twice a year in Lebanon. The latest was conducted by telephone in May 2023 among some 2090 households with at least one child (1083 Lebanese; 518 Syrian refugees; 489 Palestinian refugees)
UNICEF has expanded its programme to respond to the compounding crises, including:

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/  or follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

For media queries, please contact:
Christophe Boulierac, UNICEF Lebanon: cboulierac@unicef.org +961 81998437
Blanche Baz, UNICEF Lebanon: bbaz@unicef.org +961 3331874
Maya Outayek, UNICEF lebanon: moutayek@unicef.org +961 70190634


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/237273-lebanon%E2%80%99s-crisis-stretches-families%E2%80%99-coping-ability-breaking-point-unicef-survey




Date: 05 June 2023
Title: 11 wastewater treatment plants across Lebanon will be rehabilitated and made operational with EU funding
Content: 05 June 2023
On World Environment Day, The European Union signs an agreement with UNICEF in partnership with the Ministries of Energy and Water and Environment


The project has been developed part of the Water Sector Recovery Plan and complements the nexisting support to water supply services under the Water Establisments, largely funded by the European Union and implemented by UNICEF. It will bring back into operation 11 key wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) across the country while promoting public awareness on wastewater impact on the environment and health.
Improving the functioning of WWTPs is also in synergy with the aims of reducing the vulnerability of children to water-borne diseases and therefore the impact on their health and nutritional status.
"The World Environment Day, that we celebrate today, sheds light on a painful reality that our country suffers from due to years of accumulated environmental crises and the absence of a radical action,” Prime Minister Najib Miqati said. “During the recent cholera outbreak, we saw how UNICEF intervened to reach everyone with clean water, especially in the remote villages. Today, through the signing of this agreement with UNICEF in partnership with the European Union - which has never failed to assist Lebanon in fundamental and essential matters - we hope it will be an opportunity for the Lebanese Government to take responsibility in managing and improving these facilities instead of relying on others to do so.”
Lebanese Minister of Energy and Water, Dr. Walid Fayyad said: “After more than one and a half years of preparations and coordination with the European Union, UNICEF, the Council for Development and Reconstruction and the Water Establishments, we are happy that our hard work with all stakeholders is bearing fruit today with the kick off of a very important phase of the wastewater sector. the EU’s and UNICEF’s support will allow the Water Establishments to smoothly transition into becoming the caretakers of the sector as mandated by the Water law. The Ministry of Energy and Water highly appreciates all efforts put towards that end, and particularly the EU’s extended support to the Lebanese during the time of crises. With the support of the international, we are working for the recovery of the water sector by 2026”
Minister of Environment, Dr. Nasser Yassin, said: "The project, which we are celebrating today on the occasion of World Environment Day, is essential to protecting the environment and ensuring public health. However, we should, in parallel to this support, put greater effort to ensure the continuity of this project through a cost recovery system while reducing the operational cost wastewater plants, such as relying on solar energy”.
Ambassador of European Union to Lebanon, Mr. Ralph Tarraf said: “The benefits of today’s project extend far beyond the realm of wastewater management. Functioning sanitation facilities and proper wastewater treatment are fundamental pillars for public health and socioeconomic development. By ensuring that wastewater is treated, we mitigate the risks of waterborne diseases and protect the wellbeing of citizens. Yet as much as it is an investment in the health and quality of life of people, it is also an investment in the country’s economic recovery.”
“Inadequate operation and maintenance of WWTPs and discharge of inadequately treated wastewater to the environment poses a major environmental and public health risk. The recent cholera outbreak reminds us of the dangers posed by pollution of the environment by unreated wastewater” said Ettie Higgins, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Lebanon. “With the European Union, we remain committed to strengthening the water establishments capacity to ensure equitable and sustainable provision of wastewater services to reduce the spread of infections and save lives”.
This project aims to bring back into operation 11 major wastewater treatment plants in various locations across Lebanon. However much more needs to be done in more than 70 WWTPs that exist in the country in order to ensure that the environment is kept free from pollution at all times and in all places.

END

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/  or follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube
For more information please contact
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unief.org +96170190634


About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon.
Learn more on the work of the EU in Lebanon or follow on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at @EUinLebanon


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/235514-11-wastewater-treatment-plants-across-lebanon-will-be-rehabilitated-and-made-operational-eu




Date: 27 May 2023
Title: UN Statement on the disbursement of cash assistance for refugees
Content: 27 May 2023
Statement on behalf of the United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon Imran Riza, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Representative in Lebanon Ivo Freijsen, and the World Food Programme Country Director and Representative in Lebanon Abdallah Alwardat on the disbursement of cash assistance for refugees    Statement on behalf of the United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon Imran Riza, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Representative in Lebanon Ivo Freijsen, and the World Food Programme Country Director and Representative in Lebanon Abdallah Alwardat on the disbursement of cash assistance for refugees
As a result of meetings held yesterday with the Caretaker Prime Minister, H.E. Najib Mikati, and Caretaker Minister of Social Affairs, H.E. Hector Hajjar, and based on their requests, a decision has been made to temporarily pause the use of dual currency for next month's disbursement of cash assistance to refugees, while discussions continue on appropriate modalities.

The United Nations reiterates its commitment to humanitarian principles in supporting the Government to assist the most vulnerable people across Lebanon. All programmatic decisions are taken with full transparency and commitment to our mandate including decisions on assistance modalities which are based on solid, objective evidence and thorough research.

We continue to stand with the people and Government of Lebanon during these difficult times and foster a collaborative environment to reach those most in need, including refugees.

******
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/233665-un-statement-disbursement-cash-assistance-refugees%C2%A0




Date: 26 May 2023
Title: Lebanon Export Academy, the first of its kind in Lebanon, graduates Lebanese agri-food MSMEs, cooperatives and start-ups, equips them for International Markets
Content: 26 May 2023

The graduation ceremony was held in the presence of Ms. Chantale Akl, Head of the Minister Office and Head of Industrial Parks and Zones Bureau, representing H.E. Mr. George Bouchikian, Minister of Industry; Ms. Zeina Harake, Head of Foreign Trade Department, representing H.E. Mr. Amin Salam, Minister of Economy and Trade; Ms. Gloria Abi Zeid, Director General of the directorate of cooperatives, representing H.E. Abbas Hajj Hassan, Minister of Agriculture; Mr. Imran Riza, United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator; Mr. Jamie Schnurr, Head of Cooperation, Embassy of Canada to Lebanon; Mr. Emmanuel Kalenzi, UNIDO Representative to Lebanon, Jordan and Syria; Ms. Melanie Hauenstein, UNDP Resident Representative in Lebanon; and Mr. Maroun Chammas, Berytech CEO.
The Lebanon Export Academy is implemented by UNIDO and UNDP in partnership with Berytech, as part of the Productive Sectors Development Programme (PSDP), a UN joint programme generously funded by the Government of Canada. The programme aims at supporting gender-responsive job creation and helping to generate economic opportunities in the agri-food and agriculture sectors in Lebanon, with a specific focus on women and female youth in disadvantaged areas.
“The PSDP has gathered all of us here today to celebrate the 50 agri-food MSMEs and cooperatives who are graduating from the Lebanon Export Academy. This academy illustrates an excellent example of Private and Public Partnership (PPP) and of an innovative e-learning platform that is available and accessible to all,” said Riza in his opening remarks. “With your persistence and enthusiasm, you are helping lay the foundations for Lebanon’s economic recovery, and very importantly with women at the center,” he added.

Since the launch of the Lebanon Export Academy in April 2022, the academy has benefited 70 SMEs, cooperatives and start-ups, 60% of which are women-led, and has equipped them with the tools, insights and tips to enable them to export their agri-food products to new international markets.
Through in-person and online flexible modalities of learning adapted to their needs, the training packages addressed the challenges identified by experts and MSMEs in this field across the export value chain.
“Today the success of the Academy is the result of the drive and motivation of businesses, the high caliber of its trainers, and the experience of the local partner. Continuing to manage this learning platform together with the support of our government partners, we hope this success will continue in the long-run” said Ms. Alexandra Santillana, Senior Development Officer at the Embassy of Canada to Lebanon.
The courses offered by the academy have been delivered by top-notch Lebanese experts and practitioners in the field of export, who have transmitted their know-how and expertise to help MSMEs avoid export-related challenges, while maximizing their export potential. The modules have covered all export processes and procedures, ranging from researching new markets to documentation, trade agreements, quality requirements, pricing strategies, and more, making the Lebanese Export Academy a key pillar to ensuring the sustainability of the sector in the long-run.
“We believe that export-led growth is key for Lebanon's economic recovery. In this endeavor, the Lebanon Export Academy plays a significant role as it is a vital enabler and a fundamental building block. The Academy's ability to nurture and enhance the export capabilities of businesses in Lebanon aligns directly with UNDP's mission for a people-centered recovery that capitalizes on Lebanon’s enormous potential", said Hauenstein.
“In the current economic situation in Lebanon where foreign exchange is increasingly needed for businesses to survive, supporting export-oriented initiatives such as the Lebanon Export Academy is of critical importance to help MSMEs sustain their businesses in the local and international markets,” said Kalenzi.
For her part, Akl said: "Today, more than ever, the importance of export for Lebanon’s growth and prosperity has to be emphasized. Our industrial sector holds tremendous potential, and tapping into international markets with the right knowledge and expertise is the key to unlocking that potential. Today’s event truly embodies this commitment and constitutes a great example of the efficiency of Private Public Partnerships”.
The role of the academy has become essential today to equip start-ups, micro, small and medium enterprises and cooperatives providing them with the needed support to ensure their project feasibility and financial sustainability while lowering their risk of failure amidst the country’s current economic and financial crisis.
“Integration into the world economy has become more challenging today due to the new upcoming trade policies governing international trade. In this context, we think that the “Lebanon
Export Academy” will play a vital role in facing these challenges by supporting MSMEs working in the agri-food and agriculture sector, providing a variety of in-person and online training courses covering a series of topics related to export readiness, conducting market research, understanding export documentation and legal requirements, setting export prices, and finding suitable financing options,”  said Harake in her opening remarks.
“We appreciate the efforts exerted to establish the Lebanon Export Academy, because of its positive effects in terms of enhancing the chances of achieving some of the strategic goals set by the Ministry of Agriculture, especially in terms of reviving the livelihoods of farmers and producers, increasing productive capacity, as well as enhancing the efficiency and competitiveness of agricultural and food production chains,” stressed Abi Zeid in her statement.
The graduation ceremony was also  an opportunity to present the Lebanon Export Academy’s innovative e-learning platform that offers business leaders online digital tools to boost their learning in a self-paced manner.
More information on the Lebanon Export Academy can be found on this URL:  https://lebanonexportacademy.com/
For more information, contact Ms. Chloe Khoury, UNIDO Communications Specialist, at: c.khoury@unido.org

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/233384-lebanon-export-academy-first-its-kind-lebanon-graduates-lebanese-agri-food-msmes




Date: 24 May 2023
Title: UN-Habitat partners with LCEC, expanding efforts to provide responsible renewable energy solutions in Lebanon.
Content: 24 May 2023

LCEC will work with UN-Habitat to assess the feasibility and efficiency of implementing solar energy systems in more than twenty pre-selected sites. Following a feasibility study, that will be undertaken by LCEC, shortlisted sites will have needs-based renewable energy interventions implemented. Furthermore, a joint national awareness-raising campaign focused on best practices from selection, installation, and maintenance of the systems, including safety measures to be taken into consideration when installing solar energy systems, will run in parallel.
"While sustainable energy is progressing rapidly in many sectors of the Lebanese economy, some sub-sectors are being left behind and kept in the dark. The importance of this partnership between UN-Habitat and LCEC is that it targets facilities from those unprivileged sub-sectors and supports them to join this green energy transition. Not only will this cooperation improves energy performance within those facilities, but also it would strengthen their role in the societal fabric towards robust, healthier, and safer urban environments. LCEC is so grateful to be able to contribute to this. "said Pierre El Khoury, LCEC General Director and President of the Board.
“Cities are major contributors to climate change – including in Lebanon. According to UN-Habitat, cities consume 78% of the world’s energy and produce more than 60% of greenhouse gas emissions. While Lebanon continues to suffer from a pronounced energy crisis, the sector of renewable energy has seen a remarkable leap in the past couple of years. UN-Habitat has embarked in many projects to address this crisis and through our partnership with LCEC we will be supporting more public institutions and municipalities to embark more green solutions for a better urban future.’’ said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon.
Since its establishment, UN-Habitat Lebanon has been working effectively with partners and urban planning actors at the community, national and international levels to develop and implement programmes and interventions across the country that contribute to making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.
-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

About the Lebanese Center for Energy Conservation (LCEC)
The LCEC is a non-political not-for-profit organization. LCEC’s mission is to lead the efforts of Lebanon in the development of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy to increase energy security and de-carbonization levels. We proactively develop policies, implement projects, and shape the market in harmony with the global sustainable energy transition.

For media enquiries:
Layal Abou Antoun
UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
M: +961 81 512629
E: layal.abouantoun@un.org

Farah Al Mawla
Lebanese Center for Energy Conservation
T: +961 1 565 108
E:farah.mawla@lcec.org.lb

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/232949-un-habitat-partners-lcec-expanding-efforts-provide-responsible-renewable-energy-solutions




Date: 23 May 2023
Title: UN Statement on the return to disbursement of cash assistance in dual currency
Content: 23 May 2023
Beirut, 23 May 2023 -- Statement on behalf of the United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon Imran Riza, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Representative in Lebanon Ivo Freijsen, and the World Food Programme Country Director and Representative in Lebanon Abdallah Alwardat on the return to disbursement of cash assistance in dual currency.
Following close consultations with relevant counterparts, government stakeholders and the Central Bank in recent months, the United Nations and partners have now returned to the previous modality of disbursing cash assistance to refugees in dual currency.
Given the operational challenges including the rapid depreciation of the local currency, increased fluctuations of the exchange rate, and the strain on the financial provider in supplying large volumes of cash in Lebanese Pounds, it has become impossible for the United Nations and partners to continue to disburse cash assistance only in Lebanese Pounds.
By the end of 2022, most assistance programmes in the country, including the Government’s National Poverty Targeting Programme supporting vulnerable Lebanese people, had shifted to USD or dual currency, allowing recipients to redeem their cash assistance either in USD or LBP. Dual currency payments for refugees are thus in line with this general approach.
Cash-based interventions are used to provide protection, assistance, and services to the most vulnerable people across Lebanon. It helps Lebanese and refugees meet a variety of basic needs and contributes to the local economy by purchasing directly from local markets and shops. Cash assistance provided to vulnerable people across the country has always been based on assessments of needs that take into account the socio-economic realities and coping mechanisms.
--ENDs
For more information, please contact:
UNHCR
WFP
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/232903-un-statement-return-disbursement-cash-assistance-dual-currency%C2%A0




Date: 15 May 2023
Title: Japan and UNOPS handed over solar photovoltaic systems and medical equipment to public hospitals in Lebanon
Content: 15 May 2023

Amidst the acute electricity shortages in the country, the initiative, funded by the Government and the people of Japan, has strengthened the operational capacity of the Ministry of Public Health and helped curb the  spread of COVID-19. The newly installed solar photovoltaic hybrid systems with the capacity to generate more than 266 KWp (kilo-watt peak) will cover 20-30% of the energy consumption of the targeted public hospitals in the North, Bekaa, and Nabatieh governorates. Additionally, 544 medical items and more than 13,000 light bulbs, fixtures and accessories were delivered to enhance energy efficiency and improve healthcare services provision.
The project will ensure that power cuts do not interrupt life-saving and essential public health services while reducing the operational cost and burden on the hospitals. As a result of this project, more than 436,500 vulnerable girls and boys, men and women will have access to improved healthcare services.
Speaking at the ceremony, H.E. Mr. Masayuki Magoshi, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon said: “Governmental hospitals in Lebanon are the backbone and pillar of the country’s healthcare sector, and given the growing significance of their role Japan decided to support the governmental hospitals through the provision of a solar power system and essential medical equipment. Japan hopes that this assistance will help secure the sustainable access to health services to the most vulnerable communities during these difficult times.”
Dr. Firas Abiad, the Minister of Public Health in Lebanon, said: “Using solar panels in the governmental hospitals will not only reduce the cost of energy but it will enhance the hospitals’ sustainable development, reduce their expenses and use the resources to improve the quality of services, support the hospitals’ personnel and retain them. We are grateful to this support from Japan and to UNOPS’s efforts in making this project a reality.”
“Electricity and quality healthcare services have been critical for the people of Lebanon who are experiencing multiple challenges. I appreciate the continued partnership with the Government of Japan in support of vulnerable populations and in collaboration with the Ministry of Public Health to enhance access to public health services in Lebanon.” said Muhammad Usman Akram, Representative and Director of UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman.

About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral and multilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/231969-japan-and-unops-handed-over-solar-photovoltaic-systems-and-medical-equipment-public




Date: 11 May 2023
Title: UNESCO completed the rehabilitation of the iconic Sursock museum damaged by Beirut port explosions
Content: 11 May 2023

“With the LiBeirut initiative, UNESCO placed education, culture and heritage at the heart of the international efforts of recovery. After completing the rehabilitation of all damaged schools one year ago, we are proud to bring this iconic cultural institution back to life. The Sursock Museum is a gem of Lebanese architecture and cultural life, a powerful symbol of pride and resilience for the Beirut community,” said Audrey Azoulay, UNESCO’s Director General.
The UNESCO rehabilitation project was supported by Italy, through €1 million funding from the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS). Italian funds have been invested to complete necessary works related to lighting systems for the exhibition galleries, replacement of internal partitions, restoration of fire doors, glass walls and ancillary equipment, painting, waterproofing and lighting of the facade and the landscaping, in addition to the installation of electromechanical systems and solar energy panels to ensure green and sustainable energy consumption. The Museum had received direct support for the first phase of rehabilitation by France and ALIPH.
“The Sursock Museum, the first rehabilitation project launched jointly by Italy and UNESCO in the field of cultural heritage after the explosion, represents a key demonstration of our commitment to the recovery of Beirut, said Italian ambassador to Lebanon Nicoletta Bombardiere. We firmly believe that culture and the protection of heritage are more necessary than ever in times of crisis”.
Building on its 2015 Recommendation concerning the Protection and Promotion of Museums and Collections, their Diversity and their Role in Society, UNESCO has supported the museum in regaining its ever-increasing role in the city while stimulating creativity, revamping cultural life, providing opportunities for creative and cultural industries, and contributing to the material and spiritual well-being of both citizens and visitors. The Sursock Museum is set to reopen its doors on 26 May 2023. “The reopening of the Sursock will hopefully give yet another impetus to the cultural life in Lebanon”, said Tarek Mitri, Chair of the Sursock Museum.
Located in Ashrafieh, the Sursock Museum is one of the few landmarks and witnesses to the Lebanese architecture and mansions of the 18th and 19th centuries in Venetian and Ottoman style in Beirut. It is housed in the 1912 villa of Nicolas Sursock who donated it, together with his collections, to the Lebanese citizens, binding the use of the villa as a museum of modern and contemporary art. Inaugurated in 1961, the museum hosts in its permanent collection over 1,500 pieces including paintings, sculptures, tapestries and installations, in addition to more than 30,000 valuable photographs, postcards and manuscripts, from the Fouad Debbas Collection, among others.

More about UNESCO’s action in Beirut
Li Beirut is an international flagship initiative launched from Beirut by the Director-General of UNESCO, Audrey Azoulay, in the aftermath of the explosions, to support the rehabilitation of schools, historic heritage buildings, museums, galleries and the creative industry. In particular, UNESCO rehabilitated the 280 educational institutions damaged by the double explosion, mobilizing more than US$35 million.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/231183-unesco-completed-rehabilitation-iconic-sursock-museum-damaged-beirut-port-explosions




Date: 18 April 2023
Title: WHO commemorates World Health Day and 75 years of improving public health in Lebanon
Content: 18 April 2023
To mark the occasion, WHO held a ceremony at the UNESCO Palace in Beirut under the patronage and in the presence of Dr Firass Abiad, the Minister of Public Health, Dr Abdinasir Abubakar, the WHO Representative in Lebanon, Mr Imran Riza, the United Nations Resident Coordinator, Mr Andreas Kindl, the German Ambassador, and a remarkable number of official and diplomatic figures.
The ceremony started with a short documentary on the history of WHO since the establishment of its presence in Lebanon. The documentary focused on the most important events involving the Organization during the crises of the years before the civil war, through the war and its aftermath, and up to the present day, covering the different emergencies and epidemics.
In a pre-recorded speech for World Health Day (7 April), Prime Minister Najib Mikati said: “We thank WHO for its constant support for health issues in Lebanon and its tireless support through its continuous cooperation with the Ministry of Public Health. We are confident that the national strategy for the health sector that we launched at the beginning of the year will contribute to the restructuring of the health system to become more equitable, integrated and effective for universal access to high-quality health care focused on individuals.”
In his opening speech at the event, Dr Abubakar welcomed the attendees and dignitaries and described the WHO’s efforts and most significant achievements as a major player in the field of global health over the decades, saying that: “WHO and its partners are working together on multiple fronts to achieve scientific and field programmes that will change the face of the world today. Only joint and continuous efforts will enable us to achieve Health for All and renew motivation towards achieving health justice. Along with expressing our commitment to improving the health and well-being of the people of Lebanon, we would like to express our gratitude for the unwavering support from our partners, including the government, the Ministry of Public Health, United Nations agencies, nongovernmental organizations and donors, and remain committed to working together for a healthier and more resilient Lebanon.”
In his remarks, Ambassador Kindl said:“WHO has increased life expectancy and quality of life, improved access to clean water and sanitation, reduced malaria, tuberculosis and polio successfully, fought Ebola and COVID-19 and so much more. There is no country that did not at some point in its history depend on the support and knowledge of WHO. Lebanon is no exception and did profit enormously during the most recent cholera outbreak and when WHO helped provide access to services and protection from COVID-19. While facing new and old crises, WHO remains committed to contributing to the UN Agenda 2030 and particularly to Sustainable Development Goals 3: Health and well-being for all. As we come together on World Health Day, the Health for All promise remains unfulfilled and much needs to be done to meet the 2030 agenda and to leave no one behind.”
In his comments, Minister Abyad said:“Here we are, 75 years after the establishment of WHO, celebrating World Health Day and Health for All as a basic human right. But there are still enormous challenges facing securing Health for All. The eruption of crises locally and globally limits the resources available to the health sector and enables the spread of epidemics, making it difficult to prepare for them. And the limited primary care services in low-income countries help increase the number of people with noncommunicable diseases, which increases the burden on the health sector and consumes the country’s resources. These problems are exacerbated by climate change and its negative impact on health institutions. All of this does not help achieve equality in health provision or achieve Health for All.”
Mr Riza, UN Resident Coordinator in Lebanon, stated that: “Health is at the heart of the Sustainable Development Goals, and is an intrinsic element of any development. Health for All highlights the UN’s commitment to equity. Universal health coverage is a common global goal that all UN agencies and global partners are investing social, economic and environmental resources in to reach by the year 2030.”
During the ceremony, WHO nominated Professor Jacques Mokhbat as this year’s “Health Champion” to amplify WHO’s 75th anniversary campaign, which is running from 1 January 2023 to 7 April 2024.
Dr Mokhbat is a well-known academic and trusted public health expert who has represented Lebanon on several WHO committees at the regional and global levels. He has never hesitated to donate his time and expertise to support the Ministry of Public Health in addressing significant outbreaks of communicable diseases in the country. He is a well-known public figure, always ready to provide the media with health information during emergencies.
Since its establishment in Lebanon in 1951, WHO has been at the forefront of health promotion, disease prevention and emergency response in the country, including during the current challenges. WHO actively supports the national health response to prevent, detect and respond to health threats and provides technical guidance and vital medical supplies to Lebanon. By adopting a comprehensive One Health approach, WHO will continue to build more robust health systems, promote health justice and respond quickly and effectively to health emergencies.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/229291-who-commemorates-world-health-day-and-75-years-improving-public-health-lebanon




Date: 12 April 2023
Title: Reform, Recovery, and Reconstruction Framework (3RF): Co-chair Statement by the Prime Minister of Lebanon, the UN Resident Coordinator, and Representatives of Donors and Lebanese Civil Society
Content: 12 April 2023

Eighteen months after the launch of the 3RF, a wide range of stakeholders were consulted on the strategic way forward. Stakeholders agreed that reform is critical to help Lebanon return to a path of sustainable development, starting with the IMF staff-level agreement. To this end, the 3RF will be continued as a unique platform for inclusive policy dialogue and to make progress on implementing reforms to unlock international support for and investments in reconstruction. Furthermore, the 3RF will not extend its focus on recovery, since other coordination structures in Lebanon are better equipped to address recovery and humanitarian needs.
The Lebanon Financing Facility (LFF) will continue to channel funding to support the implementation of 3RF priorities and will provide financial and technical support for implementing the priorities defined by the sector working groups led by government representatives. The LFF 2023 annual workplan will reflect the shift in focus to reforms and their link to mobilisation of funds for reconstruction. These decisions will not affect recovery projects currently under implementation.
Access to information about the 3RF will be improved through the launching of a dedicated website, which will include a reform tracker, an overview of sector priorities, as well as key results and outcomes of discussions. This will also support the Independent Oversight Board to deliver on its important mandate. The 3RF Consultative Group will provide strategic guidance and mobilize political support at the highest level.
Inclusive technical discussions will continue taking place in empowered sector Working Groups where Lebanese state institutions will lead by presenting their proposals and challenges. This will help international organizations and donors prioritize their interventions. Local civil society, including private sector actors, will provide their expertise, monitor progress, promote priority issues, and highlight any challenges. Encouraging collaboration between civil society and state institutions is a priority to build and foster trust between local stakeholders.
Convening the full range of stakeholders will bring together all resources needed to make progress possible for the people of Lebanon. To read more about the 3RF, please visit the new 3RF website on https://www.lebanon3rf.org. Comments or questions can be sent to ask@lebanon3rf.org.

*********
Media Contacts:

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/227158-reform-recovery-and-reconstruction-framework-3rf-co-chair-statement-prime-minister-lebanon




Date: 06 April 2023
Title: UNOPS  launches two Call for Proposals in Lebanon
Content: 06 April 2023

The call for proposals is open for officially registered Non-Governmental Organizations, Civil Society Organizations, foundations and academic institutions that are interested in providing activities in the two sites, including provision of operational support and implementation of participatory social activities with the engagement of women, youth, elderly, persons with disabilities and marginalized groups.
Dr Solveig Buhl, Director of KfW Development Bank Office in Beirut, said: “We are aware of the key role played by local community organizations in responding to the needs and we look forward to their engagement in the SIMA project.”
Muhammad Usman Akram, Representative and Director of UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman, said: “We are happy to start our collaboration with local NGOs and CSOs in Lebanon. I am confident their engagement will help in improving the living conditions of  people in Beirut and Bourj Hammoud - Thanks to the funding from  the German Government through KfW Development Bank ”.
This initiative comes as part of UNOPS effort in enhancing local resilience and implementing development and recovery initiatives through collaboration with grassroot organizations.
SIMA project aims at improving access to critical municipal services and increasing the resilience of the Beirut and Bourj Hammoud municipalities affected by the Beirut port explosion. The project includes three components that are interlinked to enhance community resilience. The first component is the rehabilitation of public infrastructure; the second is capacity building of municipal staff and project’s partners; and third is provision of grants to NGOs/CSOs.
Check out the call for Proposals for the Operational Management and Maintenance of both (1) Beit Beirut and (2) UNESCO Palace in the shared documents below.
- END -
About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral and multilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/227264-unops-launches-two-call-proposals-lebanon




Date: 05 April 2023
Title: WHO oversees a Memorandum of Understanding between the Task Force for Global Health and the Ministry of Public Health to ensure Influenza vaccine for Lebanon
Content: 05 April 2023
“After the COVID pandemic, we all learned the importance of being prepared with systems in place, with immunity or vaccines readily available, and so on. But unfortunately, because of the situation in Lebanon and the resourceful environment, the level of preparedness in Lebanon is something we could not have done on our own. That is why this support at this very crucial time is even more important and we are very appreciative of the support,” said Dr Firass Abiad.
This support will allow for the availability of influenza vaccines ahead of the flu season every year for the next five years. The essence of the partnership is to provide technical support to the MOPH through a workplan to improve vaccine availability and acceptability as well as to decrease hesitancy and support and generate other information and evidence that will help integrate and sustain the availability of influenza vaccines. WHO is also supporting generating evidence to estimate the burden of influenza in Lebanon and the relative importance of the introduction of this vaccine at the national level.
“PIVI, based at the Task Force for Global Health, together with our partners at CDC are committed to a long-term relationship with Lebanon to create a sustainable and impactful annual influenza vaccination program that will also be a critical tool for pandemic response. We are very excited about this collaboration”, stated Dr. Joseph Bresee.
This partnership is going to be sustained and renewed for the next 3 to 5 years. The memorandum highlights the fact that this is a long-term partnership with the Ministry.
PIVI is donating the vaccines and providing technical support.
WHO’s role is to provide technical support and expertise in terms of all the technical areas that will come with the agreement which will be funded by PIVI under Task Force for Global Health through WHO-EMRO.
The formal partnership comes after intensive discussions involving the Expanded Program for Immunization (EPI) committee, with the chair National Immunization Technical Advisory Group (NITAG) and other relevant immunization-related parties at the national level.
“This MOU and the support of the Task Force for Global Health and CDC to Lebanon is an important opportunity to strengthen Lebanon capacity to monitor Influenza and foster preparedness to future pandemics. WHO support that started several years ago will continue to further expand national capacity for integration of Influenza vaccine at the level of PHC, and foster preparedness, prevention and response in Lebanon, within the overall National Health sector strategy,” said Dr Alissar Rady.
This important partnership falls under WHO’s objective of working hand-in-hand with the Ministry of Public Health in collaboration with global health entities to ensure regular access to vaccines and other health-related care to citizens.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/226421-who-oversees-memorandum-understanding-between-task-force-global-health-and-ministry-public




Date: 03 April 2023
Title: Statement of the UN Special Coordinator on the municipal elections in Lebanon
Content: 03 April 2023
The Special Coordinator hopes all stakeholders will take the steps to ensure a smooth, inclusive and transparent electoral process and enable the Lebanese to exercise their political rights in a peaceful and orderly environment. Since their postponement last year, the United Nations has provided considerable assistance in support of these elections.
The upcoming municipal elections offer an opportunity for citizens to make their voices heard and to enhance their involvement in local governance and development and foster local ownership. The Lebanese people deserve effective, responsive and accountable State institutions at all levels.
Most attuned to the people’s rising needs, empowered municipalities can help introduce reforms, new ideas and innovative solutions to improve the delivery of basic public services and contribute to strengthening people’s trust in their institutions. Municipalities are also a key partner for the UN in delivering assistance.
The Special Coordinator calls for making the elections an inclusive process, particularly for women and youth to provide them with a meaningful opportunity to participate and make a difference.

***
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/226117-statement-un-special-coordinator-municipal-elections-lebanon




Date: 22 March 2023
Title: On World Water Day, the European Union and UNICEF reaffirm commitment to support sustainable water management in Lebanon through development projects
Content: 22 March 2023

The project has been developed to provide improved and sustainable water services to more than half a million people in Beirut through a system relying on gravity and pumping.
Amid the continuous crisis affecting the water infrastructure, access to water is still one of the biggest challenges, putting the health of millions of people, particularly children, at risk.
Through its long-standing partnership with UNICEF, the European Union has been one of the strongest supporters of Lebanon’s water sector amid the continuous crisis. Since November 2018 it has so far contributed EUR130 million to develop and implement  water projects and strengthen national capacity of the water establishments to ensure public access to water resources now and for the future.
“Today, on World Water Day we invite every actor to consider public water and wastewater services as an urgent national priority”, said European Union Ambassador to Lebanon Ralph Tarraf. “Exiting the crisis in the sector and achieving a sustainable solution while providing citizens with reliable water services should be a collective responsibility, with the Government, the water establishments, and citizens each having roles and responsibilities.”
“We are proud of our long-standing partnership with the EU to improve access to water in Lebanon especially during these challenging times where millions of people are still affected by the limited availability of clean water,” said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. “We should not forget, especially on World Water Day, that access to water is a fundamental right. Our priority remains strengthening the water establishments capacity to ensure equitable and sustainable provision of water to reduce the spread of infections and save lives”.
Beirut & Mount Lebanon Water Establishment director general,  Jean Gibran said: “The EBML commends international organizations’ efforts to rescue the water sector and ensure its continuity, especially UNICEF and The European Union, who supported, since the beginning of the Lebanese economic crisis, in reparing and maintaining the functioning of all pumping stations in addition to rehabilitating  some of the most damaged, which ensured the suistainability of access to water to all citizens” .“Water is life, it is the life of every human being. Your support today has contributed to the revival of this sector, without it, we wouldn’t have been celebrating world water day today” he concluded.
Sustainable management of water resources requires strong cooperation between all stakeholders beyond the water sector. Investing in safe, sustainable and inclusive access to water is not only a matter of protecting children's health today, but also ensuring a sustainable future for generations to come.
END

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/  or follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

For more information please contact
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unief.org +96170190634

About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon.
Learn more on the work of the EU in Lebanon or follow on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at @EUinLebanon
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/224283-world-water-day-european-union-and-unicef-reaffirm-commitment-support-sustainable-water




Date: 16 March 2023
Title: UN Special Coordinator Briefs the Security Council  on the Implementation of Resolution 1701
Content: 16 March 2023
Overviewing the situation in Lebanon, the Special Coordinator echoed the grave concerns of the Secretary-General and of the International Support Group for Lebanon over the lack of progress towards the election of a new President since the last briefing in November and underlined the need for the country’s political leaders to demonstrate flexibility and urgency to elect a president for the sake of the Lebanese people.
“The impact of the presidential vacuum, that is approaching its fifth month, is contributing to the paralysis of state institutions at a time when the country is most in need of urgent and efficient state action and undermining the country’s ability to address its pressing socio-economic, security and humanitarian challenges as citizens face growing hardships,” the Special Coordinator said.
The Special Coordinator highlighted examples of the dire impact of the crisis on people’s lives, including the rapid devaluation of the Lebanese currency and its ripple effect on inflation, purchasing power and poverty rates, the decline in the provision of basic public services including in key sectors such as water, energy, education and health and the growing public frustrations resulting in prolonged strikes, particularly in the public sector.
The Special Coordinator regretted that not enough was being done to adopt and implement reforms required to salvage the Lebanese economy and set the country on a path of recovery. This in turn has delayed the agreement on a financial programme with the IMF that can help stabilize the economy.
Emphasizing the importance of all of Lebanon’s constitutional milestones, the Special Coordinator welcomed the ongoing preparations for municipal elections later this year, while noting that further steps will be necessary from the government and Parliament to ensure their timely conduct. She said the elections will also be an opportunity to strengthen the participation and representation of women.
The Special Coordinator commended the diligent efforts of the Lebanese army and security forces despite their resource constraints and encouraged further international support to the military and security institutions, as trusted partners, so that stability and security is preserved in Lebanon. She also welcomed the cooperation between the army and UNIFIL in south Lebanon, which is important for the successful implementation of Resolution 1701.
Discussions at the Security Council underlined the critical importance of Resolution 1701 to the security and stability of Lebanon, Israel and the region. While outstanding obligations remain for both parties, the Special Coordinator welcomed their commitment to the resolution and the steps taken in coordination with UNIFIL to maintain the calm along the Blue Line.
The Special Coordinator and Security Council members reiterated their condemnation of the killing of a UNIFIL peacekeeper in the area of Al Aqbieh last December and underscored the importance of bringing the perpetrators to justice. The Special Coordinator also underlined the key role of an independent judiciary for Lebanon’s recovery and the need to expedite impartial and thorough judicial processes on numerous unresolved cases in Lebanon, including most tragically the Beirut Port explosion.
The Special Coordinator welcomed the unanimity within the Security Council on Lebanon’s peace, security and stability and the readiness of the international community to offer needed support. “But long-term, sustainable solutions can only be nationally led and depend on Lebanese leaders,” she emphasized.
In conclusion, the Special Coordinator reiterated the commitment of the United Nations to continue standing by Lebanon and its people.
***
Link to latest Report of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres
https://bit.ly/3Lxd7ai
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/223918-un-special-coordinator-briefs-security-council-implementation-resolution-1701




Date: 10 March 2023
Title: The Ministry of Social Affairs and UNICEF launch “Nahno-Volunteers” A National Youth Volunteering Platform
Content: 10 March 2023

Named ‘Nahno-Volunteers’ (We are Volunteers), the platform aims to bring together both volunteerism and youth engagement while also encouraging real volunteer opportunities in multiple sectors through building partnerships with civil society-based organizations (CBO’s), NGO’s and the private sector across Lebanon. Young people will be able to choose from these volunteer opportunities according to their interest and skills. These opportunities will be provided by various partners and organizations, including private companies, non-governmental organizations, and institutions.
“Volunteer work is one of the most vital mechanisms in achieving social, environmental, economic, sports transformation and institutional work,” said Edouard Beigbeder UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. “Today, young people in Lebanon, especially the most vulnerable, have limited access to opportunities to learn skills, engage in their community and improve their chances of becoming gainfully employed. This platform is an important step to ensure they can bring out positive change within while also equipping them with skills that will improve their chances to access the labour market. It is critical to provide young people with positive opportunities in such critical times”.
Minister of Social Affairs, Dr. Hector Hajjar, said: "The culture of volunteering and free giving exists with us as Lebanese, of all ages, even before the establishment of Lebanon, and it is our duty to facilitate the volunteering process, especially for young people. Therefore, "Nahno" platform is not the aim, but rather the mean”. “This safe platform, will allow the volunteers, wherever they are in Lebanon, to register and choose from the several available opportunities, and give them the opportunity to live the experience of “free giving” that may change the course of their lives and give them a new prospect and a feeling of great joy.” He added.
The platform will target mainly youth between the ages of 15 and 24 years, including UNICEF-supported youth groups, with a focus on the most vulnerable and marginalized groups. It will provide equitable access to meaningful engagement opportunities for young people to learn new skills, develop their competencies, as well as to support their transition to adulthood and employment.
“Nahno-Volunteers” is an important milestone under the umbrella of the National Youth Policy Action plan that was launched under the patronage of the Prime Minister in September 2022. UNICEF will manage the operationalization of the platform, in partnership with the Ministry of Social Affairs, to develop an empowering bridge from skills training through volunteering to employment opportunities. Both youth and organizations having volunteering opportunities can sign up on www.nahno-volunteers.com
END

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/  or follow us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

For more information:
Amira Alameddine, aalameddine@unicef.org, +9613922332
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unicef.org, +96171680955
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/222664-ministry-social-affairs-and-unicef-launch-%E2%80%9Cnahno-volunteers%E2%80%9D-national-youth-volunteering




Date: 08 March 2023
Title: Stand Up for Women Innovators
Content: 08 March 2023

Whether in technology, sports, science, or the arts, we recognize innovation by women that is helping drive positive change and overcome our most persistent challenges; social, political, economic and cultural.
The Lebanon campaign, launched by the United Nations Lebanon, and coordinated by UN Women, supports the global International Women's Day campaign – "DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality." The global campaign celebrates the women and girls championing the advancement of transformative technology and highlights the cost of women's exclusion from the digital world, which has taken US $1 trillion from the gross domestic product of low-and middle-income countries in the last decade.
The global campaign aligns with the priority theme for the 67th Commission on the Status of Women (CSW67, 6-17 March 2023) on "Innovation and technological change, and education in the digital age for achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls."
In Lebanon, the "Stand up for women" campaign expands the global theme, to include innovators in sports and the arts as well as the fields of science and technology. It recognizes women's leadership in all fields, including where biased norms and stereotypes have kept women away.
As part of the nation-wide campaign, the UN in Lebanon today launched a video featuring women innovators – and their male colleagues – in sports, cooperatives, crafts, journalism, and pharmacy. The video honours women's accomplishments, highlights their innovative contributions to their fields and recognizes that education is the key to future women innovators across society. A social media campaign will also run on all UN agencies platforms as of 8 March 2023.
“Women innovators, whether in Lebanon or globally, are so important now in terms of addressing the multitude of daunting challenges we face in new ways,” said Imran Riza, the United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon. “A sustainable recovery for Lebanon needs the skills and thinking of the women innovators we are celebrating today,” he added.
The first National Woman’s Day was observed in the United States on February 28, 1909. In 1975, during International Women’s Year, the United Nations began celebrating International Women’s Day on March 8, which is now celebrated in many countries worldwide. It is a day when women are recognized for their achievements regardless of divisions, be those national, ethnic, linguistic, cultural, economic, or political.
___________________________________________

About the United Nations
The United Nations system in Lebanon comprises 26 agencies, funds and programmes, as well as a peacekeeping mission, a political mission, and a regional commission that cover a broad spectrum of peacekeeping, political, development, human rights, and humanitarian work in Lebanon. The United Nations supports Lebanon to promote the country’s long-term peace and security, development, and human rights priorities.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/221723-stand-women-innovators




Date: 06 March 2023
Title: Register your farm, protect your rights! Launching of the Farmers’ Registry
Content: 06 March 2023

The Minister of Agriculture Abbas Hajj Hassan representing the Prime Minister attended the event with the FAO Representative in Lebanon, Nora Ourabah Haddad, the Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Lebanon, Alessandra Viezzer, in addition to ministers, deputies, ambassadors, heads of chambers of commerce, industry and agriculture, representatives of economic bodies, farmers' unions and media professionals.
Funded by the European Union, the Farmers’ Registry is a program which will include farm data, parcel and location identification data, farmers’ livelihood conditions data, and farmers’ household and socio-economic and demographic information.
In his welcoming speech, Minister Hajj Hassan explained that this initiative aims to register people practicing agricultural work and targets, in the first stage, 50,000 farmers across Lebanon.
"The registry will provide us with accurate knowledge of all the details in the agricultural sector, the cultivated areas, and the quality of the crops, and thus improve our ability to determine the quantities of production ... and match needs with capabilities," he said.
From her side, FAO Representative in Lebanon, Nora Ourabah Haddad, said that the registery will constitute a reference for the development and organization of the agricultural sector and will be used to manage the data of about 170,000 farmers in Lebanon.
“The Farmer’s Registry is a significant step forward in our efforts to support the neediest ones by also promoting sustainable agriculture and rural development. Managed correctly, Lebanon can reap huge rewards from shifting to a more productive economy” said Alessandra Viezzer, Head of Cooperation at the Delegation of the European Union to Lebanon.
Several farmers from all over Lebanon participated in the launching event and shared their expectations in the benefits of the registry.
Farmer Walid Abu Saifan will invite all his farmers colleagues to head to the nearest agricultural center and register their farm.
For Leila Dahrouh, a beekeeper form Mount Lebanon, this registry will help the ministry to identify farmers in need according to their livelihoods and socioeconomic. This way, we will have access to agricultural and social services, she added.
To raise awareness on the importance of the registry and invite farmers to register, the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with FAO launched a national advertising campaign inviting farmers go to the nearest agricultural center affiliated with the Ministry of Agriculture, after booking appointments through a specific platform which they can access from MoA’s website:  www.agriculture.gov.lb
Funded by the European Union, this registry was established within the framework of the project “Enhancing resilient livelihoods and food security of host communities and Syrian refugees in Jordan and Lebanon through the promotion of sustainable agricultural development” and implemented by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, the World Food Program (WFP) and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).

About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon. Learn more on the work of the EU in Lebanon or follow on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at @EUinLebanon.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/221940-register-your-farm-protect-your-rights-launching-farmers%E2%80%99-registry




Date: 02 March 2023
Title: Statement of the International Support Group for Lebanon
Content: 02 March 2023

The ISG urges the political leadership and Members of Parliament to assume their responsibilities, act in line with the Constitution, and uphold the Taef agreement by electing a new President without further delay.
The status quo is unsustainable. It is paralyzing the State at all levels, profoundly undermining its ability to address the urgent socioeconomic, financial, security and humanitarian challenges and eroding people’s confidence in state institutions as hardships mount.
Eleven months after the Staff Level Agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Lebanon is yet to conclude a financial program. Expediting the adoption of laws necessary to restore confidence in the banking sector and the harmonization of exchange rates are vital to stem socioeconomic deterioration.
Noting that the municipal elections were postponed for one year until May 2023, the ISG welcomes ongoing preparations to ensure the timely conduct of these elections. Renewing the mandate of municipal bodies, which are on the front line serving Lebanese citizens, is important to ensure the functioning of state institutions and strengthen confidence in local governance.
The ISG strongly condemns the violent attack against a UNIFIL convoy in December 2022, which killed one of its members, in Al Aqbiyeh and expects the perpetrators to be held to account and swiftly brought to justice.
Ensuring judicial process is a necessary element to restoring the credibility of Lebanon’s state institutions, to implementing the rule of law and assigning proper accountability, and to ending impunity. In this regard, the ISG notes with concern the lack of progress in the judicial proceedings on the Port of Beirut explosion of 4 August 2020.
The ISG continues to stand by Lebanon and its people.

Note to Editors
The International Support Group has brought together the United Nations and the governments of China, France, Germany, Italy, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, together with the European Union and the Arab League.  It was launched in September 2013 by the UN Secretary-General with former President Michel Sleiman to help mobilize support and assistance for Lebanon’s stability, sovereignty and state institutions.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/221392-statement-international-support-group-lebanon




Date: 28 February 2023
Title: UNIDO, in partnership with the Ministry of Industry, presents 6 pre-feasibility studies in support of agri-food producers
Content: 28 February 2023

The reports were presented on Tuesday 28 February 2023 in the presence of H.E. Mr. George Bouchikian, Minister of Industry, Mr. Jamie Schnurr, Head of Cooperation, Embassy of Canada to Lebanon, and Mr. Emmanuel Kalenzi, UNIDO Representative and Head of Regional Office for Lebanon, Jordan and Syria.
"Lebanon is going through a major and critical economic crisis.  The country needs every support from brotherly countries and international organizations. Despite this crisis, Lebanon remains a beacon of civilizational, cultural and scientific hub, and a bridge of interaction between East and West. We are confident that Lebanon will rise and its ordeal will not be prolonged.” - Confirmed H.E. Mr. George Bouchikian.
The agri-food sector is a major contributor to economic opportunities and job creation for women and youth in underprivileged areas; therefore, there is urgency in assisting local businesses export their products and access new markets.
“We are pleased to see that through the PSDP programme, we were able to develop portals, market intelligence reports and training tools in support of stakeholders -institutional as well as businesses - so they can optimize their production, expand their activities abroad, build their export capacity and create jobs.” Sais Mr Jamie Schnurr,  Head of Cooperation, Embassy of Canada to Lebanon
In this context, these reports highlight the potential of the following products: pickles, fresh juices, dried fruits and vegetables, mouneh, chocolate, as well as healthy snacks and bars. The studies underline the potential of several agri-food products in the local market and provide valuable insights and tailored data to help MSMEs, investors and startups identify market opportunities, improve their manufacturing process and increase their efficiency. The studies also highlight the industry’s technical requirements and standards that would enable agri-food businesses to maintain their businesses and reach sustainable growth.
“Improving access to international markets for women and men-led MSMEs is a key component of the PSDP. The pre-feasibility studies presented today constitute part of the market intelligence tools the PSDP is providing to the Government institutions. We believe that these reports are an important suite to support the development of the agri-food sector in Lebanon. Enhancing the agri-food sector will contribute to the development of the country and constitutes a driver for job-creation particularly for rural women.” Said Mr. Emmanuel Kalenzi.
Each report incorporates three main sections: definition; macro trends including market size, trade performance and supply as well as means of production consisting of plant facilities, labor force, average cost breakdown, product composition, technical requirements and equipment. Also, they provide readers with insights on innovation and a SWOT analysis for every value chain.

Through these pre-feasibility studies, UNIDO supported by experts from the Ministry of Industry are gathering data and transforming it into actionable insights to efficiently promote Lebanese agri-food products.

All pre-feasibility studies can be downloaded from the Ministry of Industry’s website under the Publications and Studies section.
The PSDP is a UN joint Programme, funded by the Government of Canada and implemented by six UN agencies (UNIDO, UNDP, ILO, UNICEF, FAO & UN Women) and coordinated by the Resident Coordinator’s Office (RCO).
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/221323-unido-partnership-ministry-industry-presents-6-pre-feasibility-studies-support-agri-food




Date: 27 February 2023
Title: Statement of Correction from UN-Habitat Lebanon
Content: 27 February 2023
Therefore, UN-Habitat would like to clarify the following:
For further accurate information about the project, please visit this page. UN-Habitat encourages all media partners to contact its office to validate any information about UN-Habitat and its programming and partners prior to publishing it.
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high-impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions.

For more information:
Layal Abou Antoun, UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme
+961 1 978398
layal.abouantoun@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/220978-statement-correction-un-habitat-lebanon




Date: 22 February 2023
Title: UN and Lebanese Government kick-off work on the UN Cooperation Framework for Lebanon’s Sustainable Development
Content: 22 February 2023

The meeting discussed the 2023 priorities of the UN Cooperation Framework and introduced the role and functions of the JSC as well as the overall way forward on the implementation of the Framework.
“The JSC constitutes the high-level accountability forum between the UN and the Government of Lebanon for the Cooperation Framework, and plays a key role in providing strategic direction, oversight, and coordination for the UN programmatic and operational interventions in the development field in Lebanon,” said Riza in his opening remarks. “The Committee will monitor the progress made towards the implementation of the Cooperation Framework that aims to help put Lebanon back on the development track. Government’s role and leadership are critical for the advancement of this framework” he stressed.
The Committee, which is co-chaired by the Prime Minister and the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, is composed of Heads of the UN entities operating in Lebanon and of relevant ministers to advance the priorities of the CF, who were also present in the meeting.
For his part, Mikati stressed that the meeting aims to secure technical and developmental support to put Lebanon back on the road to recovery, explaining that “extensive consultations and meetings between the relevant Lebanese ministries and United Nations organizations have contributed to defining the priorities that will put us back on the path of sustainable development and social and economic recovery.” He added that “there is no sustainable development without political stability,” renewing his call to all leaders, officials and stakeholders to “put an end to obstruction and pointless political accusations that have no helpful role to play in the day-to-day life of the suffering citizens.”
The JSC will also ensure alignment of the national Government priorities with the Cooperation Framework and monitor its implementation and results on regular basis.
*****
About the UNSDCF:
The UN Cooperation Framework formalizes the UN and Government’s partnership in development, provides strategic direction to the UN’s work and ensures its alignment with the evolving country context and national development processes. From 2023 to 2025, the CF aims to achieve four strategic development priorities that revolve around the People, the Planet (environment), Prosperity, and Peace and Governance, and consisting of the following: (1) Improved lives and well-being for all people in Lebanon; (2) Improved resilient and competitive productive sectors for enhanced and inclusive-generating and livelihood opportunities; (3) Sustained peaceful and inclusive society for participatory and equitable development; (4) Restored rich nature and ecosystem of Lebanon for inclusive green recovery.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/220255-un-and-lebanese-government-kick-work-un-cooperation-framework-lebanon%E2%80%99s-sustainable




Date: 15 February 2023
Title: UNHCR-funded Solar Panels Ensure Uninterrupted Access to Clean Water for 25,000 Residents in Akkar
Content: 15 February 2023

UNHCR equipped the water station with a solar-pumping system that generates power through 195 solar panels to support water-pumping from nearby water sources to the tank. Thanks to this intervention, over 20 towns[2] in the Akkar governorate, hosting over 25,000 residents, now have continuous access to clean water.
“This project is an example of the positive impact that UNHCR interventions have in ensuring that people in Lebanon have improved access to essential services, such as water,” said Ivo Freijsen, UNHCR Representative in Lebanon. “I’ve met with municipalities that benefited from this project and heard from them how this intervention has a direct impact on the daily lives of all residents.”
As part of its support to Lebanese communities, throughout 2022, UNHCR and partners have innovated solutions to Lebanon’s energy crisis through 74 community support projects. These projects have increased Lebanese and refugees’ access to sustainable solar-powered energy by providing electricity to primary healthcare centres, governmental hospitals, and Water Establishment stations, benefiting over 1.5 million persons in more than 84 villages across the country.
“The installation of the solar-powered system in the Qobayat Water Establishment shows how the United Nations and its partners are supporting people in Lebanon with tangible solutions to some of the most pressing everyday problems,” said Imran Riza, United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator. “Much has been done by the United Nations over the past years, and we remain committed to increasing the impact of our support to Lebanon through programs that speak to the critical needs of all people,” he added.
In 2022, over 575,000 individuals benefited from UNHCR projects in the Beirut and Mount Lebanon region. For example, UNHCR-installed solar streetlights in Naameh and Sad El Baushrieh have increased the protection of residents from road accidents, thefts, and other risks.
In the Bekaa, UNHCR has supported 11 health facilities with solar-powered solutions that secure potable water and ensure that they continue providing lifesaving treatment to patients. Over 200,000 individuals in the Bekaa and Baalbek-Hermel regions have benefited from such projects.
In the South, two water stations supported by UNHCR are providing clean water to over 57,000 residents.
In January, UNHCR finalized the installation of solar-powered systems in the Tripoli and Halba governmental hospitals in north Lebanon. Thanks to this intervention, the hospitals are now respectively saving $41,000 and US$ 29,000 per month in fuel expenses.
UNHCR has been supporting Lebanese institutions and communities since 2011, including 655 community support projects to upgrade public infrastructure in towns and villages across Lebanon.
Freijsen added: “UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, supports entire communities - both refugees and Lebanese – during this most difficult time. With compounded crises deeply affecting Lebanon in recent years, we have doubled our efforts to support Lebanese communities and institutions. Our commitment remains strong, and we will continue to stand by the most vulnerable.”

For more information on this topic, please contact:

[2] The residents of the villages of Sindyenet, El Bireh, Danke, El Qsair, Fraidis, El Mejdel, El Dawse, Deir Janine, Mazraat Baldeh, El Hed, Kfar Harra, Daghle, Aain el Zeit, Aain tanta, Aaydamoun, Dahr Ousman, Ebour el Bid, El Nahriyyeh, El Meghraka and Al Aawaynat now have sustained access to water.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/219447-unhcr-funded-solar-panels-ensure-uninterrupted-access-clean-water-25000-residents-akkar




Date: 13 February 2023
Title: UNICEF calls on all stakeholders to re-open public schools and ensure all children are learning
Content: 13 February 2023

UNICEF acknowledges the dedication and commitment of teachers to their students and understands the negative impact of the economic crisis on their lives. We also recognize the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Higher Education to secure the allocation of additional domestic funding to support teachers.

It is time now for all stakeholders to come together to ensure that all children get back to school and that learning is never interrupted again.
We continue to sound the alarm on the education crisis. When schools close, early marriage increases, sexual exploitation and abuse of children and child labour rise. The impact will be devastating on the future and well-being of children and youth, their families, and Lebanon’s prosperity. The World Bank in a report[1] estimates that a lost year of schooling would translate into losses to the Lebanese economy of up to US$2.5 billion in the coming years.
UNICEF, together with the international community will continue our long-standing support to the education sector to ensure that all children in Lebanon have access to education.

****
About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/

Learn more on the situation of children and UNICEF’s work in Lebanon in 2020:
www.unicef.org/lebanon/media/5681/file

For media queries please contact:
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unicef.org +961 70 190 634

[1] 2022, World Bank unpublished report: Another Lost Year? Cost-Benefit Analysis of Keeping Lebanon’s Public Schools Open in 2022-23
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/219446-unicef-calls-all-stakeholders-re-open-public-schools-and-ensure-all-children-are-learning




Date: 01 February 2023
Title: UN-Habitat and the Embassy of Japan in Lebanon expand partnership by signing a US$900,000 project to be implemented in Tripoli
Content: 01 February 2023
This new project will be implemented in Shalfeh, Tripoli – a vulnerable urban community in Abu Samra neighbourhood. Based on UN-Habitat’s full assessment of the neighbourhood in 2022, the population is estimated at 11,000 inhabitants who live in sub-standard housing conditions, lacking basic services such as water, electricity and waste management, and access to livelihood opportunities. The project aims to address increasing socio-economic livelihood challenges in the community, and mitigate rising risks and tensions, through the provision of urban farming solutions, clean water, and renewable energy solutions.
“This comprehensive project could not have been more timely given the exacerbating socio-economic difficulties that Lebanon is facing. Japan continues to place a high priority on responding to the urgent needs of the vulnerable households across the country in particular food security. I strongly hope that the urban farming initiatives, coupled with the water and renewable energy solutions would alleviate the recurrent hardships faced by Shalfeh community in Tripoli.’’ said H.E. Magoshi Masayuki, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon.
Through a community-based approach, the project will address multiple challenges faced in the targeted area, benefiting more than 5,000 direct beneficiaries. The urban farming activities will offer means to enhance food security and generate income for women and youth while the water and renewable energy solutions interventions, that will be implemented in two public schools and one dispensary, will ensure continuous provision of clean water, to minimize water-borne diseases and other health risks, such as cholera.
‘’With the ever-increasing socio-economic and livelihood challenges faced by communities across Lebanon, innovative solutions and development opportunities are needed to empower the most vulnerable. Through identifying vacant plots and spaces in dense urban communities, cities can contribute solutions to address food insecurity, enhance skills, provide livelihood opportunities and engage those often left behind.” said Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme. “As we partner once again with the Embassy of Japan in Lebanon, we value their trust in our programme to promote a better urban future for the country,’’ she concluded.
Since its establishment, UN-Habitat Lebanon has been working effectively with partners and urban planning actors at the community, national and international levels to develop and implement programmes and interventions across the country that contribute to making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.
-END-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/217427-un-habitat-and-embassy-japan-lebanon-expand-partnership-signing-us900000-project-be




Date: 31 January 2023
Title: UN Women Appoints Joyce Azzam as its National Goodwill Ambassador for Lebanon
Content: 31 January 2023

The announcement was made during a ceremony after Joyce led a group of young women, women’s rights actors, women in sport, ambassadors, government ministers, and UN officials on a guided walk in the Chouf mountains.
UN Special Coordinator Joanna Wronecka congratulated Ms. Azzam on her appointment as UN Women goodwill ambassador.  “As demonstrated by her life, achievements, and proven commitments, I have no doubt that Joyce will keep working to advance gender equality in Lebanon. Women’s role in promoting, serving and empowering other women is key to raise awareness, advocate for gender-sensitive and inclusive behaviors and build sustainable changes in our societies”, the Special Coordinator said.
For his part, the UN Deputy Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Mr. Imran Riza, warmly welcomed Ms. Azzam thanking her for the inspiration she provides as a role model for youth in Lebanon and elsewhere. “Our work on women’s rights, gender equality and women empowerment will benefit greatly from her support”, Mr. Riza said.
“We are delighted to have Joyce join us in our pursuit to achieve equality between men and women in Lebanon. She is an inspiration for a generation of girls who want to climb to new heights in their personal and professional lives. We look forward to two years of action and achievements with Joyce - something that she has always shown us – to inspire and drive change for equality and equal rights”, says Rachel Dore-Weeks, UN Women representative in Lebanon while announcing the partnership.”
Born with Hypermobility Syndrome during Lebanon Civil War, Joyce Azzam was the first Lebanese woman, and one of only a few Arab women, to climb all Seven Summits of the world. She is currently working to undertake the full Explorers Grand Slam in its long-distance version, something only a handful of women have achieved.
“I am grateful and honoured to be appointed as UN Women’s first National Goodwill Ambassador for Lebanon. This appointment shows UN Women’s continued commitment to women and girls in the country and across the region and world, and I am very proud to play a part in furthering this work”, says Joyce in her statement during the event.
Talking about her plans Joyce adds, “In my role I intend to connect with different communities across Lebanon, advocating to influence people to support women and girls, and to promote women’s rights. Together with UN Women, I will draw attention to the priority issues for women’s empowerment and gender equality both in sports and in other sectors. I invite the Government of Lebanon, and others from both civil society and the private sector, to join us in our journey towards a more equitable society for that is the way toward progress and prosperity.”
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/217231-un-women-appoints-joyce-azzam-its-national-goodwill-ambassador-lebanon




Date: 24 January 2023
Title: UN-Habitat expands support to critical emergency response capacities of city facilities in Greater Beirut through funding from Polish Aid
Content: 24 January 2023

To mark the successful completion of the project, H.E. Przemysław Niesiołowski, Ambassador of Poland to Lebanon, and Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme, visited the three public facilities and met with firefighters in their duty stations.
The project entitled “Improving living conditions by promoting renewable energy in public and non-profit social and health institutions in the Greater Beirut metropolitan area,” funded by Polish Aid, was implemented by UN-Habitat and Polish Centre for International Aid (PCPM). It installed solar panels on three public facilities in Greater Beirut: Bachoura Fire Brigade and the Lebanese Civil Defense facilities in Jdeide and Bourj Hammoud, providing them with access to renewable energy while lighting surrounding streets to ensure safety, security and uninterrupted emergency response and operations.
“We value the support that the Embassy of Poland and UN-Habitat are providing to Lebanese cities and public facilities, enabling them to remain operational during these difficult times. As fire brigade and civil defense centres are at the forefront of emergencies, supporting their abilities to respond to emergencies enhances people’s safety,” said Judge Marwan Abboud, Governor of Beirut.
“In continuation to the fruitful cooperation of Polish Aid with UN-Habitat in funding successful projects in Lebanon, Poland provided additional financial contribution with the aim of promoting renewable energy in the Greater Beirut area. In 2022-2023, through funding from Polish Aid, UN-Habitat and PCPM implemented a project of installation of photovoltaic systems on the rooftops of three fire stations. Independent, renewable power sources will make the operations of the brave firefighters more efficient in providing various services to the benefit of local communities. We are proud to mark the completion of the project today,” said H.E. Przemysław Niesiołowski, Ambassador of Poland to Lebanon.
‘‘With the newly installed sustainable energy system, our firefighters will continue to succeed in their missions, and the facility as well as the surrounding streets have now access to 24 hours of uninterrupted power supply. We are grateful for Polish Aid and UN-Habitat’s contribution, allowing for better response in rescue missions to protect the people of Lebanon,’’ said Colonel Maher El Ajouz, Chief of the Beirut Fire Brigade centres.
The Head of the Training Department in the Civil Defense, Mr. Nabil Salhani, representing Brigadier General Raymond Khattar, Director General of the Civil Defense, said: "This project has contributed to enhancing the service of firefighters working in the Jdeide and Bourj Hammoud centres, and has motivated them to continue to perform their humanitarian and national duties - reflecting positively on the security and safety of residents. The Directorate of Civil Defense commends this valuable initiative, achieved thanks to UN-Habitat, that is working towards a  bright pollution-free future for our country.’’
‘’As Lebanon continues to endure multi-faceted crises, it is our duty as UN-Habitat, to stand by its cities and public facilities to mitigate the negative impacts on its people. We are glad to see how this project is facilitating the preparedness of firefighters within the three centres to prevent, counter and respond to emergencies at any time.’’ said Ms. Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme. ‘’As climate change is affecting all cities around the world, it is the right time to start investing in renewable energy solutions for a better urban future,’’ she concluded.
Since its establishment, UN-Habitat Lebanon has been working effectively with partners and urban planning actors at the community, national and international levels to develop and implement programmes and interventions across the country that contribute to making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable.
-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/216518-un-habitat-expands-support-critical-emergency-response-capacities-city-facilities-greater




Date: 09 December 2022
Title: UN-Habitat and the National Commission for Lebanese Women launch the National Implementation of the Women and Land Campaign in Lebanon
Content: 09 December 2022
The campaign launch initiated a multi-level dialogue about women’s housing, land, and property rights in Lebanon while highlighting the importance of protecting these rights. The event offered an opportunity for women who have had their HLP rights safeguarded, to share how this has empowered them and ensured the socio-economic wellbeing of their families and communities.
During the event Ms. Claudine Aoun, president of NCLW, said: ‘’Today, we look forward to have an evolution in mentalities and practices, so that our daily lives become more in line with the principles we hold, and for the prevailing culture in our society to be a living culture inspired by our contemporary life, and not by experiences lived by our ancestors and which belong to times completely different from ours. Hence our call to update the laws governing our lives of which the personal status laws, including the special provisions on inheritance.  Therefore, we call that there be in Lebanon a unified civil law for personal status that equalizes the rights recognized for women and those for men, in everything related to managing their lives and their personal and family lives.”
“Improving women’s housing, land, and property rights in Lebanon is absolutely essential. By ensuring these rights, the socio-economic development opportunities and wellbeing for families and communities can significantly improve, at all income levels. The protection of women’s housing, land and property rights contributes to the realization and enjoyment of a wide range of human rights such as the right to an adequate standard of living, adequate housing, health, work, and education.’’ said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
During the event Ms. Randa Abboud, Public Notary, Treasurer, Executive Board Secretary and Member of the Gender Based Violence Committee and the Legal Committee at NCLW, provided a legal review of women's housing, land, and property rights in Lebanon through available data and legislation.
Professor Ghada Jumblatt, a member of the executive board at NCLW Executive Office, moderated the discussion session on the challenges for implementing women’s housing, land and property rights in Lebanon.
The Women and Land Campaign in Lebanon is in line with the NCLW’s coordination role in the implementation of the National Action Plan for the execution of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace, and Security, namely on women economic empowerment and is also part of the regional campaign launched by UN-Habitat in partnership with the Global Land Tools Network (GLTN) on housing, land and property rights for women in the Arab region. It is part of UN-Habitat’s mandate to achieve a better urban future for all, and by the partners of the Stand for Her Land Campaign, including the World Bank, the International Land Coalition, Landesa, and Habitat for Humanity.
As a key outcome of the event, a set of recommendations on the way forward will be generated, capturing a series of action-oriented advocacy suggestions made during the discussion. These commitments are to women in Lebanon, policy-makers, and relevant stakeholders, concretizing the importance of ensuring HLP rights for women in urbanization and planning, for the future well-being of all those living in Lebanon.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high-impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/210769-un-habitat-and-national-commission-lebanese-women-launch-national-implementation-women-and




Date: 25 November 2022
Title: LAUNCH OF A 16-DAY CAMPAIGN AGAINST GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE CELEBRATING THE WOMEN’S RIGHTS MOVEMENT IN LEBANON AND THE IMPORTANCE OF ACTIVISM FOR GENERATING CHANGE
Content: 25 November 2022

VAWG remains the most widespread and pervasive human rights violation worldwide affecting more than an estimated 1 in 3 women0F[1] a figure that has remained largely unchanged over the last decade1F[2] .The most recent global estimates show that, on average, a woman or girl is killed by someone in her own family every 11 minutes.2F[3]
This year, the United Nations system in Lebanon, with partners are implementing a campaign that aims to serve as a call to action to mobilize partners, stakeholders, individuals, and the public at large to engage in activism to prevent violence against women and girls. Articulated around the theme, “UNITE! Activism to End Violence against Women & Girls”, it invites everyone to be an activist by taking a public stand against VAWG in local communities, and through joining women’s rights movements and activists.
“We call on women to live free from fear. Any assault on their dignity is punishable, even if it was committed by a close relative. The security forces protect women affected by violence and filing a complaint against the perpetrator of violence will deter further abuses. Keeping silent about violence at home, is not a virtue", said Mrs. Claudine Aoun, President of the National Commission for Lebanese Women.
“We all have a duty to act to end all forms of gender-based violence, particularly against women. The 16 days of activism are a reminder that we should not be silent to such a violation of women’s basic right to live in dignity, free from violence and fear”, said Ms. Joanna Wronecka, the UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon. “Lebanon’s recovery and building a better future for the country and its citizens depends to a large extent on empowering women and giving them the space to enjoy their full rights as active partners in society. The United Nations stands ready to support Lebanon in this process”, the Special Coordinator added.
The campaign, which will run for 16 days, from 25 November till 10 December, consists of a social media campaign - with the #16days and   #سوا_ضد_العنفhashtags- showcasing 16 men, women and girls from all walks of life across Lebanon standing in solidarity with women’s rights activists, supporting feminist movements and calling for engagement in activism to prevent and end VAWG. It will include a video and a series of social media posts calling for everyone’s commitment to protecting women and girls.
Women’s rights activism and advocacy are key to ending VAWG and have successfully generated important legislative protection gains throughout the last decade, in Lebanon, while strengthening service delivery. Activism and advocacy have contributed to putting this topic on the political agenda, to strengthening laws and policies, essential services and prevention strategies.
“Ending Gender-based violence requires the commitments and actions of all”, said Imran Riza, United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident, and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon. “It is fundamentally wrong that harmful gender stereotypes and norms, structural inequality, and discrimination are still affecting women and girls in Lebanon. This requires transformative actions by all of us to stamp out and prevent this violence” he added.
The international campaign 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence originates from the 1991 first Women's Global Leadership Institute and raises awareness and increases momentum toward ending violence against women and girls worldwide. In support of the civil society–led, 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence campaign the UN Secretary-General’s UNiTE by 2030 to End Violence against Women campaign (UNiTE), launched in 2008, calls for global action to increase awareness, galvanise advocacy efforts and share knowledge and innovations to end VAWG once and for all.
_______________________________________
The United Nations system in Lebanon comprises 30 agencies, funds and programmes as well as a peacekeeping mission, a political mission and a regional commission that cover a broad spectrum of peacekeeping, political, development, human rights and humanitarian work in Lebanon. The United Nations supports Lebanon to promote the country’s long-term peace and security, development and human rights priorities.
The National Commission for Lebanese women (NCLW) is an official institution established by law at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in 1998 with the aim of promoting the status of women and ensuring equal opportunities for women and men.  Its General Assembly is composed of personalities who are known for their activities related to women's affairs and is chaired by the woman delegated by the President of the Republic.
The Commission carries out consultative functions at the Presidency of the Government and public administrations and institutions, as well as liaison and coordination functions with various administrations, institutions, public, community and civic organizations and Arab and international organizations. The Commission also performs various executive functions, including the formulation of strategies and plans.
The Gender-Based Violence  Working Group (GBV WG) comprises  UN agencies and national and international NGOs, women organizations dedicated to carry out GBV activities in Lebanon alongside MOSA and other relevant government authorities. It aims at supporting a comprehensive and coordinated approach to GBV, including prevention, care and support, and efforts to allow survivors to access justice. The GBV working group also prioritizes life-saving activities and gap-filling as well as enhancing predictable and effective prevention, risk mitigation and response. The group, chaired by UNFPA, UNHCR and MOSA contributes to a shared vision and integrated strategies among humanitarian stakeholders to better address GBV through a survivor-centered and rights-based approach
The Gender Working Group (GWG) in Lebanon, chaired by UN Women, is a strategic forum and advocacy platform to promote gender equality and the integration of gender considerations in humanitarian-development-peace (HDP) actions of the United Nations and their partners in Lebanon. The GWG regularly convenes both international and national actors from across sectors to facilitate action on gender equality and women’s rights. The Gender Working Group is made up of 42 members (UN agencies: 19, INGOs: 6, and NGOs: 17); 15 member states collaborate with the group in an observatory status capacity. This group is complementary to the Gender Donor Working Group, chaired by the Government of Canada in Lebanon.

Media Contacts:
Roula Rached, Communications and Advocacy Specialist, UN Women, phone number: + 961 70351088
Micheline Elias Massaad, NCLW Executive Director, phone number:  + 961 3 452 570
Pamela Di Camillo, Humanitarian/GBV Coordinator, United Nations Population Fund, Phone number: +96176482273

[1] Across their lifetime, 1 in 3 women, around 736 million, are subjected to physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner, non-partner or both (Violence against Women Prevalence Estimates), however, this figure would be even higher if it included the full continuum of violence that affects women and girls including sexual harassment, violence in digital contexts, harmful practices and sexual exploitation.
[2] WHO (2021) Violence against Women Prevalence Estimates
[3] UNODC (2021) Killings of women and girls by their intimate partner or other family members. Global estimates 2020
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/208773-launch-16-day-campaign-against-gender-based-violence-celebrating-women%E2%80%99s-rights-movement




Date: 10 November 2022
Title: UN Humanitarian Relief Funds Allocate US$9.5 Million to Contain the Spread of Cholera in Lebanon
Content: 10 November 2022

“The US$9.5 million directly targets more than 1,500,000 people across Lebanon - Lebanese, Syrian refugees, Palestine refugees and migrants – at heightened risk of exposure to cholera. CERF and LHF funding will support early containment and rapid response activities critical to prevent loss of life and stop the spread of this disease in high-risk areas.” Mr. Imran Riza said.
The United Nations and a wide network of local and international partners on the ground are supporting the implementation of the joint prevention, preparedness and response plan, developed under the leadership of the Lebanese Ministry of Public Health (MoPH).
Fully aligned with this plan, the LHF emergency reserve allocation of US$4.5 million will support NGO-led lifesaving cholera containment and response activities through ensuring water safety in high-risk areas and providing support to cholera stabilization centers at selected primary health care centers.
The CERF Rapid Response allocation of US$5 million will allow for complementary support through WHO, UNICEF, UNHCR and their NGO partners. CERF funded interventions will focus on improving access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene in cholera high-risk areas through support to water and wastewater systems, chlorination of household water tankers, and support to cholera treatment centers units. Activities will also aim at a strengthened and equitable health response through upscaling the cholera vaccination campaign and coverage of hospitalization costs of most seriously affected individuals.
“We are hopeful that the implementation, in close collaboration with the Government, of a well-coordinated set of time-critical interventions, will limit the spread of the disease and mitigate the impact on the population. We count on the donor community to continue support us in this endeavour”, Mr. Riza added.
“At the same time, it is critical that the Government of Lebanon steps up its efforts to ensure the provision of basic services to the population. The responsibility to provide uninterrupted energy for running critical water supply and wastewater management facilities remains with the Government. A comprehensive solution to the ongoing energy crisis will be the only sustainable and efficient way to meaningfully fight the disease and prevent recurring outbreaks in the future.”, Mr. Riza concluded.

Background
This is the first outbreak of cholera in Lebanon since the last case was reported in 1993 with no local transmission documented since then. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), Lebanon is the latest phase of a rampaging outbreak that began in Afghanistan in June - then spread to Pakistan, Iran, Iraq and Syria.
Lebanon reported the first confirmed cholera case on 4 October 2022. The MoPH officially declared an outbreak of cholera on 6 October 2022.  Since the first case was confirmed, over 3042 suspected and confirmed cases have been reported across the country, including 18 deaths. Children are most at risk from the deadly disease, with those under 14 making up more than 50% of cases.
The United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) and the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund (LHF) are OCHA-managed pooled fund mechanisms used complementarily to facilitate fast, effective and accountable humanitarian response. Established by the UN General Assembly in 2005, CERF enables humanitarian responders to deliver life-saving assistance whenever and wherever crises strike.
The LHF is a country-based pooled fund led by the Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon and managed by OCHA. Since its inception in 2014, the LHF has received over US$ 146 million from donors to support the delivery of timely and effective humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable people in Lebanon regardless of their status.
For more information, read the latest situation report: https://reliefweb.int/report/lebanon/lebanon-cholera-outbreak-situation-report-no-3-5-november-2022

******
For more Information, please contact:
- Ms. Severine Rey, Head of Office – UNOCHA Lebanon. rey@un.org; + 96171907930
- Ms. Kawsar Fahs, Senior Communications Officer- UNOCHA Lebanon. Kawsar.fahs@un.org; + 96181107870

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/207673-un-humanitarian-relief-funds-allocate-us95-million-contain-spread-cholera-lebanon




Date: 07 November 2022
Title: UN-Habitat and the Republic of Korea in Lebanon sign a US$ 500,000 project to supply and install renewable energy solutions for public facilities in Zahle
Content: 07 November 2022
The project entitled: “Improved access to municipal and social services through renewable energy alternatives” will enhance access to social and basic services for the residents of Zahle through the supply and installation of renewable energy solutions. Photovoltaic panels will be installed on the roofs of two public facilities in Zahle: the Tel Chiha Hospital and the Water Pumping Station run by the Beqaa Water Establishment (BWE) to generate constant and reliable power supply during the day for operation and water supply. The project will also enable the installation of renewable energy lighting fixtures on streets in Zahle to ensure public safety.
Ambassador Park, emphasized on the commitment of the Korean Government in collaboration with UN-Habitat to support Lebanese authorities in offsetting some of the many hardships endured by vulnerable people in Lebanon, and in this case specifically with renewable energy alternatives. He said: "Korea is always standing by the Lebanese people in their efforts for peace, stability, and prosperity and will contribute to the recovery, rehabilitation, and capacity building of Lebanon."
‘‘Energy is considered as a major factor for the development of cities. The current economic crisis in Lebanon has affected the supply of energy across communities, which is having a great impact on the provision of basic public services such as healthcare and water supply.’’ said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme. ‘’We, as UN-Habitat are working closely with our partners in Lebanon on integrated approaches to provide sustainable urban solutions for cities for a better future.’’
This project is in line with the Lebanon Emergency Response Plan, a multi-sectoral Emergency Response Plan (ERP) to address the needs of the most vulnerable affected by the crisis.
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

For media enquiries:
Layal Abou Antoun
UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
M: +961 81 512629
E: layal.abouantoun@un.org

Sooyeon Kim
Embassy of the Republic of Korea to Lebanon
T: +961-5-922-849 (144)
M: +961-71-581-564
E: syekim22@mofa.go.kr

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/206341-un-habitat-and-republic-korea-lebanon-sign-us-500000-project-supply-and-install-renewable




Date: 05 November 2022
Title: WHO requires US $ 10.2 million to respond to the rapid cholera outbreak in Lebanon
Content: 05 November 2022
“Lebanon is vulnerable to cholera, and this is being aggravated by prolonged economic conditions and scarce access to clean water and proper sanitation services across the country," says Dr. Abdinasir Abubakar, WHO Representative in Lebanon.  “We need to concert efforts to ensure people have just access to health services, clean water, and sanitation and educate them on how to deal with cholera if any gets infected.”
The healthcare system in Lebanon is already strained to current economic and social crises, and the cholera outbreak may overwhelm the already fragile health system in the country. There are many challenges in responding to the cholera outbreak, and WHO and other partners are making extra efforts to overcome these challenges in order to prevent further spread and control the outbreak in a timely manner. WHO’s priority is to limit the spread and transmission of the cholera outbreak while minimizing the morbidity and mortality associated with cholera through good quality healthcare services
The focus of WHO’s response to the cholera outbreak is to:
Since the first case was detected, WHO has been effectively working with partners and the Ministry of Public Health to reduce avoidable morbidity and mortality, to contain transmission of the disease in affected areas, and to mitigate the risk that the outbreak spreads to other areas.
Related links: https://www.emro.who.int/lbn/lebanon-news/who-warns-of-deadly-cholera-outbreak-in-lebanon-as-cases-increase.html
Media contacts:
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/206324-who-requires-us-102-million-respond-rapid-cholera-outbreak-lebanon




Date: 31 October 2022
Title: WHO warns of deadly cholera outbreak in Lebanon as cases increase
Content: 31 October 2022

Since the first case was confirmed on 5 October 2022, over 1400 suspected cases have been reported across the country, including 381 laboratory-confirmed cases and 17 deaths.
While the outbreak was initially confined to northern districts, it rapidly spread, with laboratory-confirmed cases now reported from all eight governorates and 18 out of 26 districts. Serotype Vibrio Cholerae O1 El-Tor Ogawa was identified as the currently circulating cholera strain, similar to the one circulating in Syria.
“Cholera is deadly, but it’s also preventable through vaccines and access to safe water and sanitation. It can be easily treated with timely oral rehydration or antibiotics for more severe cases,” said Dr. Abdinasir Abubakar, WHO representative in Lebanon. “The situation in Lebanon is fragile as the country already struggles to fight other crises – compounded by prolonged political and economic deterioration.”
The World Health Organization (WHO) is joining efforts with the Ministry of Public Health and other health partners to curb the evolving cholera outbreak. WHO and humanitarian partners supported the Ministry of Public Health to develop a national cholera preparedness and response plan outlining the most urgent response interventions required while scaling up surveillance and active case-finding in hotspot areas.
Given the shortage of both health staff and medical supplies in the country, WHO provided the two reference laboratories, three prisons, and 12 hospitals designated for cholera treatment with laboratory reagents, treatment kits, and rapid diagnostic tests, and deployed nurses and doctors as surge capacity to hospitals in the most affected areas. Procurement and prepositioning of additional cholera supplies are being also finalized.
WHO is ensuring that proper clinical management, practices, infection prevention, and control (IPC), and cholera testing protocols are in place for adequate referral and channeling of cases to the needed level of care. Over the past few weeks, WHO has supported a series of training sessions at central and peripheral levels to improve early detection and reporting of suspected cases, and clinical management practices and to raise awareness among the public and frontline health workers on cholera prevention and control.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/205457-who-warns-deadly-cholera-outbreak-lebanon-cases-increase




Date: 27 October 2022
Title: Statement of the UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon on handover of letters delineating the maritime boundary between Lebanon and Israel
Content: 27 October 2022
Beirut, 27 October 2022 -- United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Ms. Joanna Wronecka, warmly welcomed today the handover of letters delineating the maritime boundary between Lebanon and Israel following successful US mediation, under the leadership of Special Presidential Coordinator Amos Hochstein.

“This is a historic achievement at many levels. I hope it will serve as a confidence-building measure that promotes more security and stability in the region and economic benefits for both countries,” said the Special Coordinator who received the signed maritime coordinates from both countries at the UNIFIL premises in Naqoura today.  The Special Coordinator will deposit the documents at the UN Headquarters in New York.
The Special Coordinator commended both Lebanon and Israel for reaching a mutually-agreed solution. She also underlined the particular significance for Lebanon where the political leaders demonstrated their unity towards a common goal. “This is a new chapter for Lebanon that could also create a positive momentum to build consensus around issues of national interest,” the Special Coordinator added.
Since the adoption of the Framework Agreement that launched the negotiation process in 2020, the United Nations has been working with both countries and the United States to put an end to their maritime boundary dispute.
Looking ahead and while all stakeholders should prioritize upholding the commitments outlined in the agreement, the United Nations remains committed to assist the parties to implement it, as requested and within its mandate.
Highlighting the need for sustainable peace and security, the Special Coordinator reiterated the importance of the full implementation of Security Council Resolution 1701 and other relevant resolutions.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/204987-statement-un-special-coordinator-lebanon-handover-letters-delineating-maritime-boundary




Date: 26 October 2022
Title: UNICEF is actively supporting the Lebanese Government  fighting the Cholera outbreak
Content: 26 October 2022
Beirut, October 26, 2022 – UNICEF is making every effort to stop the cholera transmission in Lebanon under the leadership of the Ministry of Public Health since the outbreak was announced on the 6th of October. As the country’s water management and healthcare systems have been severely impacted by the deepening economic crisis and continuous nationwide electricity black-outs, urgent action is needed to contain the disease that is threatening the lives of children and families at risk.
Since the outbreak was declared, UNICEF has scaled-up its response by improving access to safe water, sanitation, and personal hygiene through support to Water Establishments (WE), Wastewater Treatment Plants, water trucking and desludging activities to vulnerable communities.
Given the electricity shortages in the country, UNICEF secured to date an emergency amount of over 100,000 litres of fuel to wastewater treatment and lifting stations and main water pumping stations so that the systems are functioning effectively and reach communities in Lebanon with clean and safe water.
During the past 2 weeks, over 15 metric tonnes of chlorine stocks were provided for all water establishments, more than 4,900 Chlorine Family Hygiene Kits, disinfection and family hygiene kits have been distributed in highly vulnerable communities.
UNICEF has also procured and distributed emergency medical supplies to hospitals designated for Cholera management including 150,000 Oral Rehydration Salts (ORS) and 40 Cholera Treatment Kits to support the treatment of 5,000 cholera cases and symptoms including moderate to severe diarrhoea. Additional orders have been received and many more supplies will be delivered in the coming weeks.
“Cholera is a waterborne disease and it’s only with clean water, reliable water and sanitation facilities and good hygiene that we can fight it,” said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF’s Representative in Lebanon. “UNICEF has been warning for more than a year on the inevitable collapse of the water infrastructure as the electricity shortage is making it impossible to pump sufficient water and therefore putting the health of millions of people, particularly children, at risk”.
“Concrete measures must be taken to prevent the spread of cholera cases in Lebanon starting with the permanent functioning of water pumping stations and wastewater treatment plants. UNICEF is employing every effort to support the government to ensure the safeguarding of children and their families”, he added.
UNICEF is also responding to misinformation, promoting awareness and healthy hygiene practices to ensure children and their families know how to protect themselves and how to seek assistance. Over 4,300 frontline workers and partners have been trained on Cholera awareness including transmission, symptoms, treatment, prevention, frequently asked questions and referral mechanisms.
UNICEF has made a preliminary appeal for cholera-specific response of US$29 million. So far, this appeal is still unfunded.
To learn on the prevention measures and how to support children, and for Multimedia Assets visit: https://www.unicef.org/lebanon/cholera-lebanon

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children and young people in Lebanon, please visit www.unicef.org/Lebanon.
Follow UNICEF on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Youtube

For more information or interviews, please contact:
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org  / Tel. +9613331874
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unicef.org  / Tel. +96170190634
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/204722-unicef-actively-supporting-lebanese-government-fighting-cholera-outbreak




Date: 13 October 2022
Title: UNOPS completes the installation of solar energy systems donated by Japan at Rafik Hariri Hospital in Beirut
Content: 13 October 2022

Funded by the Government of Japan, the project aimed at strengthening the operational capacity of the health sector in Lebanon. Under the project, UNOPS installed solar PV systems to the critical health facilities amid the serious shortage of electricity in the country. In addition, the initiative provided 116 pieces of critical equipment to a total of 16 governmental hospitals across Lebanon for medical treatment and sterilization, furniture and more than 33,000 COVID-19 medical supplies.
At Rafic Hariri University Hospital, the newly installed renewable energy solution added a capacity of 384 KWp that will generate annual savings over USD 160,000, amid the drastic hike in fuel prices. Furthermore, the newly equipped central sterilization facilities will help provide improved healthcare for vulnerable populations in need of essential health care.
Following the presentation by Mr. Hicham Fawaz, Head of the Hospitals and Dispensaries Department at the Ministry of Public Health highlighting the health projects funded by the Government of Japan, representative of the Minister of Public Health, Mr. Fadi Sinan, Director General of the Ministry of Public Health, said: “The cooperation between the Ministry, the Government of Japan and UNOPS is not new. Their long-standing and generous support has contributed to sustaining public healthcare services. Durable projects such as solar energy projects, provide regular and clean energy sources to government hospitals ensuring lower operational cost and sustainable solutions to the ongoing energy crisis.”
Japan Ambassador to Lebanon, H.E. Mr. Takeshi Okubo, said: “Through this assistance, Japan aims to respond to the emerging threats, such as shortages of essential supplies, soaring prices and above all power outages, which are pushing hospitals across the country dangerously close to a breaking point. Japan believes that renewable energy could enhance the hospitals’ capacity to deter the grave risks arising from electricity outages on the provision of health and medical services. The Japanese Government will remain a strong advocate for the adoption of renewable energy solutions across the country, and stands ready to support Lebanon for sustainable growth.”
From his side, the Head of Medical Department and Chief of Staff/ Representing the RHUH General Manager, Mr Jihad Saade, said: "The generous donations from the Government of Japan implemented by UNOPS strongly contributed to supporting public healthcare institutions, as medical services have become burdensome on citizens and hospitals alike. The provision of solar panels have reduced operational and diesel costs, whereas the rehabilitation and renovation of the central sterilization unit and equipping it with modern and advanced machines will enhance quality of care”.
“This initiative is a testimony to the strong partnership between the Government of Lebanon, the Government of Japan, and UNOPS in supporting Lebanon’s health sector by enhancing access to lifesaving healthcare services.” said Muhammad Usman Akram, Director of UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman.
Head of the Parliamentary Health Committee, Member of the Parliament Dr. Bilal Abdullah said: “All of us in Lebanon have learned the lessons from the economic crisis that the country is going through, foremost of which is the need to support government hospitals more than before." He also affirmed his full keenness to support all legislation that would improve the conditions of government hospital employees, including doctors, nurses and workers, praising the great sacrifices they made before, during and after the Corona pandemic.
This support will help targeted hospitals to provide the needed health services to more than 570,000 vulnerable women, girls, men and boys including Syrian refugees who will benefit from the project on an annual basis.
*******
About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian, and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral donors, national governments, and other UN agencies.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/203184-unops-completes-installation-solar-energy-systems-donated-japan-rafik-hariri-hospital-beirut




Date: 12 October 2022
Title: Twenty Lebanese Entrepreneurs Win ILO Competition for Best Business Idea
Content: 12 October 2022
Beirut, 11 October 2022 -- Twenty entrepreneurs, mainly women and young people, have won an ILO competition and cash prize to assist them in developing their local businesses in disadvantaged areas in northern Lebanon.
The ILO Regional Office for Arab States organized the “Women do Business Experience” competition under the framework of the  Productive Sectors Development Programme (PSDP) in Lebanon, in cooperation with the LEE Experience. PSDP is a joint UN programme, funded by the Canadian government under the Lebanon Recovery Fund and implemented jointly by the ILO, UNIDO, FAO, UNDP, ILO, UNWOMEN and UNICEF that aims to support gender-responsive job creation and economic opportunities in the agriculture and agro-food sectors prioritizing women and female youth in disadvantaged areas.
The initiative also aimed to encourage the entrepreneurship spirit of women and youth working in the agricultural and agri-food sectors in Lebanon through a real-life business-oriented competition.
Forty shortlisted candidates presented their ideas on how to further develop their businesses to a jury composed of eight judges from different organizations and technical backgrounds after benefiting from a total of 9 days of training and coaching through ILO’s regional “Women Do Business” entrepreneurship program, followed by an “advanced business resilience” tailored training to enhance the sustainability of selected participants. The candidates were shortlisted based on attendance, grades, and trainer’s evaluation.
20 winners were selected and have received a small fund each to support them implementing their business plans. The competitors were judged based on their level self-confidence and preparedness, in addition to the environmental and social dimensions of their projects.
The winners included producers of organic food, herbal oils and olive oil.
“This experience was a learning opportunity. We have extended our knowledge and we have also learned new means to improve our business. The pitching event and being a winner was exciting. We can work on a new range of products in order to satisfy our costumers’ needs and improve our business.” Hind Said Nehme – owner of Hestia.
“I believe that throughout this program, I learned many eye-opening things about business, which pushed me to improve and work harder on my project. Finally, after reaching the final level with my successful colleagues, I felt that all of my hard work had paid off, and I intend to continue learning to ensure that my business thrives as it should.” Edgar Gergi Muller, owner of Eleven N Living Olive Oil
“I cannot express how happy I am for winning. This is an outstanding achievement for me. I can now grow my business with more confidence and steadiness. I will also officially register my company.” Nermine Abdallah Hawa, owner of Pomegranate Molasses.
I was anxiously waiting with my family for the announcement of winners, and when I saw my name among the winners, I could not believe it! What a wonderful educational experience it has been. Thank you ILO and the LEE Experience for all your efforts and we’ll hopefully make you proud. Joumana Maurice Mansouraty – owner of Les Delices De Joumana
Initially, the ILO has conducted a progressive training cycle, starting with 200 women-led and men-led MSMEs and Entrepreneurs who received a training entitled “Women Do Business”, followed by an advanced “business resilience” workshop with 100 selected beneficiaries who presented a business plan at the end of their participation. 40 beneficiaries were selected for the business plan competition event.
The ILO and LEE Experience have been coaching existing and newly established MSMEs on entrepreneurship, feasibility studies, sales and marketing. The coaching has prioritized women and youth start-ups in the fruit, vegetable and nut production value chains, which have a high potential for job generation for both women and youth.
The event was attended by the Senior Development Officer in the Embassy of Canada Alexandra Santillana, PSDP team members from the Resident Coordinator Office, the six participating UN organizations and implementing partners, Academia, ILO partners and SME consultants, in addition to the 40 selected beneficiaries targeted from the North of Lebanon and Akkar with a majority of women business owners and entrepreneurs.
“Today’s “Women Do Business” competition was a great opportunity for women entrepreneurs to show their talents, knowledge and skills gained through the training provided by ILO and The LEE Experience. It was challenging for the members of the jury to select the 20 winners since all the participants showed Excellency and professionalism in their presentation. Canada is proud to continue promoting women’s economic empowerment in Lebanon.” Alexandra Santillana - Senior Development Officer in the Embassy of Canada
“It was a privilege to accompany these wonderful participants on their journey and I advise them to always seek new opportunities”. Rami el Hassan – ILO Project Officer
“I admire the confidence these participants showed in their ideas. This motivates us, as United Nations to continue working on helping entrepreneurs and SMEs owners in growing their businesses.” Christel Hanna – UN PSDP Programme Coordinator
In light of the multiple economic challenges facing Lebanon, there is an ongoing need to support employment creation and inclusive economic growth,

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/203720-twenty-lebanese-entrepreneurs-win-ilo-competition-best-business-idea




Date: 03 October 2022
Title: Ministry of Economy and Trade & ESCWA kick-start a project for the short- to medium-term economic revival for Lebanon
Content: 03 October 2022
While fundamental reforms are crucial for reviving the country’s economy, the plan will seek to identify specific short-term actions in core sectors to initiate recovery by rapidly generating employment opportunities and additional income. In this regard, three key sectors were prioritized by the Ministry, namely agribusiness, tourism and the digital economy, as they show growth potential in the current dire circumstances.
“None of the economic recovery scenarios is easy, we have to choose the least painful,” Lebanese Minister of Economy and Trade Amin Salam said. “Amid this challenging situation, we are looking to light a candle of hope. The plan presented today is subject to development, improvement, and feedback, but most importantly, it is feasible,” he stressed.
The country’s GDP shrunk by 25% in 2020, and 16.2% in 2021. However, ESCWA projects positive growth in 2022, on which the plan will capitalize to boost productivity and competitiveness; improve the business environment to attract new capital; and increase youth employment.  The plan will link these three objectives to short- and medium-term actions, consolidated from previous national and sectoral development plans developed by the Lebanese Government and advocated by international organizations.
In her remarks, ESCWA Executive Secretary Rola Dashti said that ESCWA would support the Ministry in conducting analysis, developing key performance indicators (KPIs), engaging with stakeholders and communicating strategically about the plan. “Although fundamental reforms are crucial, the Lebanese people do not have the luxury to wait for longer-term results; they need quick wins,” she added.
Like all other sectors of the Lebanese economy, the three targeted ones face serious challenges, including low productivity and competitiveness, and ineffective value chains for agribusiness; weak investments in hospitality infrastructure for tourism; and weak virtual and physical infrastructure for the digital economy. To respond to them, the plan will envisage initiatives and regulatory reforms to enhance the country’s competitiveness and international confidence.
For his part, Director General of MoET Mohamad Bou Haidar said that several plans and strategies have been put in place over the years, and, although most of these plans were evidence-based and presented a holistic approach to recovery, they missed an integral part to the success of any strategy which is implementation. He called to leverage previous plans and lessons learnt to design a robust plan and ensure a right path towards the achievement of objectives.
Through this collaborative project, ESCWA will support the Ministry in assessing the impact of the recommended policies on the economy. ESCWA will also include identifying KPIs, aligning budgets with operationalized plans, and adopting a monitoring and evaluation framework. The outcome would ultimately be to build a productive, innovative, competitive and enabling economy that supports recovery from the current crisis by 2025 through targeted reforms in the three sectors.
***
About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States, and works on enhancing regional integration.

For more information:
- Ms. Maryam Sleiman, Public Information Assistant, +961-81-769-888; email: sleiman2@un.org
- Ms. Rania Harb, Public Information Assistant, +961-70-008-879; email: harb1@un.org


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/201878-ministry-economy-and-trade-escwa-kick-start-project-short-medium-term-economic-revival




Date: 29 September 2022
Title: UNICEF welcomes the Ministry of Education and Higher Education’s decision to open public schools on the 3rd of October - Statement by Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon
Content: 29 September 2022
While we commend the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE) to bring all children back to school after 3 years of disruption, we also observed an increase in the number of out of school children over the past 3 years; 16 per cent of Lebanese children and 49 per cent of Syrian refugee children are estimated to be out of basic education.
Together with MEHE, we initiated a pilot phase for a new non-formal education programme to reach out-of-school children with learning, and support children aged 8-14 who have been out of school for more than 2 years. Participating children benefit from a tailored programme based on their needs and educational level, which represents an opportunity to bring them back into formal education.
The pilot phase of this programme, initiated in February 2022, targeted 5,000 children in 19 private schools. An evaluation study is being undertaken to assess the programme outcome. The upscale phase of the programme, designed to reach 50,000 children, is put on hold until discussions with MEHE and stakeholders take place.
UNICEF’s mandate is to support children and young people to gain access to quality and inclusive education including in the formal public school system and through alternative pathways which are relevant to the individual needs of the most marginalized children, especially out of school children. Every programme being operationalized on education in Lebanon with UNICEF’s support is part of an approved Annual Work Plan with MEHE.
UNICEF will continue its long-standing support to the education sector with the international donors and partners, who collectively have provided funding and technical assistance to public formal education in Lebanon since 2011. We recall the Government of Lebanon to fulfil its obligations towards children, teachers, and schools and take immediate practical steps to ensure that every child can access quality, safe and inclusive education.
Now is the time to redouble our efforts to reach all children with quality education. We look forward to continuing our strong partnership with MEHE and the Government of Lebanon to ensure a successful start to the new school year and beyond”.
#####
About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/
Learn more on the situation of children and UNICEF’s work in Lebanon in 2020: www.unicef.org/lebanon/media/5681/file
For media queries please contact:
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unicef.org +961 70 190 634
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/201509-unicef-welcomes-ministry-education-and-higher-education%E2%80%99s-decision-open-public-schools-3rd




Date: 19 September 2022
Title: Beirut Municipality launches Policy and Reporting Mechanism against Sexual Exploitation, Abuse and Harassment in partnership with UNICEF
Content: 19 September 2022

The policy was developed through a participatory approach with more than 30 stakeholders to understand the structure, functioning and culture of the Municipality of Beirut; assist in defining the implementation modalities and identify the gaps. Stakeholders included the Governor of Beirut Judge Marwan Abboud, the National Commission for Lebanese Women, legal and research institutions, civil society organizations, independent lawyers, and elected members and executive staff of the municipality.
The Governor of Beirut Judge Marwan Abboud said: “The municipality of Beirut commits to successfully implement this policy and mechanism and considers this achievement as an opportunity for other municipalities, regardless of their administrative structures, sizes, or departments, to benefit from the policy and to harmonize its reporting mechanism. We recommend the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities to also sponsor and adopt the policy, bringing together all decentralized administrations into a participatory, unified and inclusive vision.”
“Upholding safeguarding standards is a collective responsibility. While many efforts have been made to develop policies on PSEAH, the Municipality of Beirut is the first public administration entity in Lebanon to develop a practical reporting mechanism. This is an initiative that can be scaled up to other governmental bodies and represents an opportunity to support the amendment of Law 205 to preserve people’s dignity,” said Edouard Beigbeder, UN Resident Coordinator a.i. in Lebanon.
The Beirut Municipality has committed to progress with the policy implementation, including the creation of intake channels for the reporting mechanism with community members and Municipality employees and related personnel. Continued collaboration is also planned to enhance learning, harmonize approaches and design joint initiatives.

END

About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/

Follow UNICEF Lebanon on Twitter and Facebook

For more information:

Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org,  Tel : +961 3331874
Maya Outayek, moutayek@unicef.org Tel: +961 70190634
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/199972-beirut-municipality-launches-policy-and-reporting-mechanism-against-sexual-exploitation




Date: 13 September 2022
Title: Ministry of Youth and Sports launches the 2022-2024 National Youth Policy Action Plan in partnership with UNICEF and UNFPA.
Content: 13 September 2022

The ceremony was attended by Minister of Information, Ziad Makari;  Minister of Agriculture, Abbas Hajj Hasan;  Minister of Tourism, Walid Nassar;  Minister of Economy, Amin Salam;  Minister of Social Affairs, Hector Hajjar; Minister of State for Administrative Reform, Najla Riyachi Asaker; Chairman of the youth and sports parliamentary committee, Deputy Simon Abi Ramia; President of the National Commission for Lebanese Women, Claudine Aoun; with members of the diplomatic corps working in Lebanon; heads and representatives of international organizations; President of the Lebanese Olympic Committee Pierre Jalekh and Vice President Hashem Haidar, and heads of youth and scout federations and NGOs.
Adopted by the Council of Ministers on the 12th of May 2022, the National Youth Policy Action Plan includes 20 priority recommendations Planned through 179 interventions over a three-year period. These interventions are aligned with the National Youth Policy’s Five Priority Areas: demographic characteristics and migration; labor and economic participation; social integration and political participation; education and culture; and health and risky behaviors.
The Action Plan is part of the implementation of the Youth Policy framework that was approved by the Council of Ministers on April 3, 2012, and in line with the government’s commitment to youth issues and its integrated vision on the steps to be taken to improve their living conditions, meet their needs and aspirations that supports them reaching their objectives through 137 recommendations that fall under the five priorities.
The Action Plan is the outcome of countrywide discussions between Ministries, stakeholders, and young people. It will guide sectoral strategies on the comprehensive development of youth, creating opportunities for improving their health, psychological, social, cultural and economic status and enabling them to be included in decision-making processes in social, economic and political spheres.
The Action Plan brought together 17 Ministries and various public entities, civil society organizations, educational institutions, healthcare centres, municipalities, UN and international NGOS as stakeholders and implementing entities of the interventions. The document also includes a monitoring and evaluation framework addressing each of the recommendations and interventions
After a video screening on youth views and aspirations, the Director-General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Zaid Khayami, presented the foundations of the "National Youth Policy Action Plan", its detailed phases, participants, long-term goals and priorities, namely migration and demographic properties, labor and economic participation, social integration and political participation, education and culture, health and hight risk behaviors. He also announced the formation of a ministerial committee and the launch of the Higher Council for Youth.
“Young people in Lebanon need our support today more than ever. Providing them with skills, employment and other opportunities will enable their contribution to the country’s growth and economic development,” said Edouard Beigbeder, UN Resident Coordinator a.i in Lebanon. “The National Youth Policy Action Plan was an important demonstration of our shared commitment to the youth of Lebanon - now it is time for us to deliver on that promise and show young people that we are accountable to them”.
The Minister of Youth and Sports, Dr. George Kallas, said, “The youth policy is a national strategy that the government implements, approves and adopt to become a comprehensive recovery plan, with the cooperation of the Parliament and the relevant ministries and institutions. It is not only a national strategy, but rather a national statement. It is an independent and inclusive rights scheme, and a responsibility for all constitutional institutions and national components to take seriously and prioritize”.
Caretaker PM Najib Mikati said: “I am proud of all young men and women living in Lebanon, and I see in their eyes the hope for a better tomorrow for our people and our country. I also call on them not to despair despite the painful reality, and not to consider immigration as a solution, yet to preserve their faith in Lebanon, which throughout its history has faced more difficult times, so we overcame them, withstood all dangers, and set out again to rebuild a Lebanon that is worthy of its youth and that we are proud of” he added: ”Beirut was selected this year as the capital of Arab youth. I take this opportunity to say that Beirut will open its doors to all young people in the Arab world to tell them that you are in Beirut’s thoughts and Lebanon’s heart”.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/199049-ministry-youth-and-sports-launches-2022-2024-national-youth-policy-action-plan-partnership




Date: 13 September 2022
Title: The Lebanon Humanitarian Fund (LHF) allocates $8 million to address urgent needs
Content: 13 September 2022

“Vulnerable families in Lebanon are affected by insufficient access to water, unaffordable prices of basic commodities, limited access to life-saving services, thus taking desperate measures to survive, and we need to act now and avoid a further deterioration of the humanitarian situation”, stated the Humanitarian Coordinator a.i.
This LHF allocation will provide urgent and critical life-saving assistance to all population groups, ensure the minimum continuity of water services, support the return to school, and protect those most in need, including during winter.
Seventeen sectoral and multisectoral projects in the Education, Child protection, Shelter and Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WaSH) sectors will be prioritized, in areas with the highest severity of needs. More than half of the funding will target Lebanese people and the remaining will be destined in favor of migrants, Palestine refugees and Syrian refugees. In line with the LHF’s vision statement to boost the localization agenda in Lebanon, 29 per cent of this allocation funding is disbursed to local and national non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
OCHA-managed pooled funds have allocated $32 million thus far this year. “I am extremely grateful to the donors’ support and trust in the LHF as a critical funding instrument for a flexible, effective and coordinated response in a Whole of Lebanon approach”, declared Mr. Beigbeder.
The Lebanon Humanitarian fund (LHF) is a country-based pooled fund led by the Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon and managed by OCHA. Since its inception in 2014, the LHF has received over US$ 146 million from donors to support the delivery of timely and effective humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable people in Lebanon regardless of their status. Strong monitoring systems are in place to ensure that assistance reaches the most vulnerable based on needs.
END
******
For more Information, please contact:
- Ms. Rosaria Bruno, Head of Office – UNOCHA Lebanon. Email: bruno1@un.org, phone + 96171907930
- Ms. Kawsar Fahs, Senior Communication Officer - UNOCHA Lebanon. Email: Kawsar.fahs@un.org, phone + 96181107870

Follow OCHA LEBANON on Social Media:
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/OCHALebanon/
Twitter: https://twitter.com/OCHALebanon
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/198952-lebanon-humanitarian-fund-lhf-allocates-8-million-address-urgent-needs




Date: 08 September 2022
Title: UN-Habitat and the Embassy of Japan complete the rehabilitation of residential heritage buildings heavily damaged by the Beirut port explosion
Content: 08 September 2022

This project entitled “Support for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of most vulnerable urban areas in Beirut impacted by the Port explosion” was implemented by UN-Habitat and funded by the Government of Japan for a total of US$2.16 million. Adopting the ‘’Build Back Better’’ approach, UN-Habitat Lebanon in partnership with Live Love Lebanon, completed the rehabilitation works in the Rmeil cluster. Nine buildings seriously damaged during the explosion of were fully rehabilitated and 2 buildings were propped. The public facilities within the cluster were also restored allowing for more green spaces and landscaping within the city.
“This Japan funded project implemented in Beirut city, will be one that I will always remember. It has an integrated and comprehensive approach, and the implementation was very well executed. The impact of this project is remarkable in different aspects. We hope all heritage buildings in Beirut can be rehabilitated to bring back to life the essence of the city.” said Marwan Abboud, Governor of Beirut.
“As today we mark the finalization of the works within the Rmeil cluster, we cannot but hope to see the city of Beirut fully restored from the devastating port explosion. We thank all the donors for their generous contributions and their support to bring back the city of Beirut to what it used to be, and we hope we can make a better city in the years to come,” said Jamal Itani, Mayor of Beirut.
“Every reconstruction initiative is a step closer to recovery, and this project funded by Japan is the best proof. Having experienced two of the largest explosions in modern history, the Japanese government was among the first responders to help Lebanon in the aftermath of the explosion across several vital sectors. Today, Japan remains committed to allocating resources to support projects that push towards Lebanon’s comprehensive development and contribute to alleviating the burden of hardships on the most disadvantaged communities across the country.’’ said H.E. Takeshi Okubo, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon.
‘’More than two years have passed since the devastating Beirut Port explosion. This beautiful cluster was destroyed in seconds. Thanks to generous funding from the Government of Japan and with the efforts of our implementing partners, we are standing today in what we call a “Build Back Better” cluster, exemplifying good urban recovery’’ said Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme. ‘’The road to urban recovery is a long one, yet we as UN-Habitat are fully committed to making Beirut city, a better city for all’’ she concluded.
Through a multi-sectoral approach, the project encompassed multiple interventions, including:

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/198327-un-habitat-and-embassy-japan-complete-rehabilitation-residential-heritage-buildings-heavily




Date: 01 September 2022
Title: Secretary-General appoints Mr. Imran Riza of Pakistan as Deputy Special Coordinator in the Office of the United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon and Resident Coordinator for Lebanon
Content: 01 September 2022

Mr. Riza succeeds Najat Rochdi of Morocco, who recently completed her assignment and to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for her accomplishments and wishes her continued success in her new appointment as Deputy Special Envoy for Syria.
Mr. Riza brings over 35 years of international experience across the United Nations System, mainly in field settings.  For the past three years, he was in Syria as United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator.  Prior to this, he served in Lebanon as Deputy Head of Mission and Director of the Division of Political Affairs, Civil Affairs and Strategic Communications of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL).  He previously served as the Regional Representative to the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries for the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the UNHCR Representative for Jordan.  With UNHCR, he has also served in Geneva, Sudan, Hong Kong and Vietnam.  Mr. Riza has also held positions with the World Food Programme (WFP) in Rome and as Senior Adviser to the Personal Representative of the Secretary-General for Lebanon, as well as with UNSCOL.
Mr. Riza holds a master’s degree in Social-Cultural Anthropology from Johns Hopkins University and a bachelor’s degree in History and Political Science from McGill University.  Mr. Riza speaks English, French and Urdu.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/197849-secretary-general-appoints-mr-imran-riza-pakistan-deputy-special-coordinator-office-united




Date: 17 August 2022
Title: 10 unions of municipalities set to enhance planning capacities for local socioeconomic development
Content: 17 August 2022

The workshop brought together representatives from unions of municipalities, social development centres of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and UN-Habitat to design and to agree on the road map in order to develop a local socioeconomic plan using participatory and evidence-based approaches in each of the 10 unions.
The unions of municipalities involved in this project are: Mintaqat El Joumeh Akkar; Jord El Qaytaa; Caza Zgharta; Jurd Al Aala Bhamdoun; Iqlim El Kharroub El Chamali; El Souayjani; Caza Jezzine; lqlim El Touffah; Qala'a El Estiqlal; and Chamal Baalbeck.
“Local socioeconomic development can be fostered when local communities, civil society and the private and public sector work together. This synergy and collaboration would lead to innovative solutions that can alleviate challenges faced by communities. Through this project, I urge local authorities and all stakeholders to design project proposals that have the capability of improving people’s lives,” said Judge Abdullah Ahmad, Director General, Ministry of Social Affairs.
“As Italy, we consider that strategic planning would support development even in a difficult context. The involvement of the local communities in a participatory process will engage them in thinking their own vision of the future and how and what to do to achieve it, taking into consideration the cultural, environmental, social and economic aspects. We hope that this exercise will lead to innovative and strategic social and economic plans,” said Alessandra Piermattei, Director of AICS Lebanon.
“Local authorities, social development centres and civil society in Lebanon play a critical role in planning, strategizing priorities and implementing urgent actions. They are on the frontline of the communities which they serve – and it is those same communities who are struggling to cope with the multiple crises facing Lebanon,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
The local socio-economic plans of each Union of Municipalities focusing on income generation projects, job creation opportunities and welfare services provision will be presented to the Lebanese institutions and to the International Community as an opportunity to face the economic crisis.
-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/195246-10-unions-municipalities-set-enhance-planning-capacities-local-socioeconomic-development




Date: 11 August 2022
Title: UN-Habitat and Italy sign a €2.3m project to rehabilitate public spaces within the Mar Mikhael train station and restore housing units in Beirut
Content: 11 August 2022
The signing ceremony was held at the Italian Embassy in Beirut and co-signed by Italian Ambassador to Lebanon, Nicoletta Bombardiere, and Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme, Taina Christiansen.
The project entitled: “Ensuring safe public spaces and adequate housing for all within the City of Beirut” is funded by AICS and will be implemented by UN-Habitat in close coordination with the Directorate General of Antiquities (DGA), the Railway and Public Transportation Authority (RPTA) as well as the Municipality of Beirut and Governor of Beirut. The project will enhance the housing conditions for vulnerable populations affected by the Beirut Port explosion, especially in the vicinity of the old train station in Mar Mikhael, and increase access to safe and inclusive public spaces within the train station, while also reviving the urban fabric of the city.
Italian Ambassador to Lebanon Nicoletta Bombardiere stated that: “Upgrading and accessibility of green spaces, as well as conservation and requalification of urban sites are the core of the Italian Cooperation interventions. This project will allow people in Beirut to rediscover the old train station of Mar Mikhael, and its historical relevance. At the same time, we remain committed to respond to basic needs, such as social housing, restoring the cultural and social fabric of mostly affected neighborhoods.”
‘‘Inclusive public spaces are key to the sustainability of healthy, happy, safe and prosperous cities and communities. We at UN-Habitat greatly value the support of the Government of Italy through this project. Together we will revitalize public space areas within the Mar Mikhael train station and ensure adequate housing within the same area – thereby having a multiplier effect on the overall wellbeing and recovery of the city.’’ said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme. “As we continue to apply an area-based approach to support Lebanese cities recover from ongoing crises, we re-affirm our commitment to improving the lives of people across the nation as we move forward for a better urban future,’’ she added.
This project is an extension of the long-standing successful partnership between UN-Habitat and AICS in Lebanon, in which they are cooperating on a separate project at the municipal level, which will improve local planning capacities and the socioeconomic conditions of local populations.
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/194374-un-habitat-and-italy-sign-%E2%82%AC23m-project-rehabilitate-public-spaces-within-mar-mikhael-train




Date: 03 August 2022
Title: IOM and UNODC in Lebanon Organize Awareness-raising Sessions on the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons
Content: 03 August 2022

The sessions were organized in collaboration with Caritas Lebanon and Legal Action Worldwide (LAW), L'Union Pour La Protection de L'Enfance Au Liban (UPEL) and KAFA (enough) Violence & Exploitation. The initiative provided an opportunity to recognize the plight of human trafficking victims and promote and protect their rights.
“Lebanon is currently enduring severe crisis episodes, which makes it crucial for victims to seek help” stressed Judge Henry Khoury, Minister of Justice. “To achieve that, capacity-building and resources should be enhanced in order to use technology as a gamechanger to end human trafficking.”
Raising awareness about human trafficking provides an important foundation for individuals, first responders, law enforcement entities, service providers, and others to recognize the indicators of human trafficking and how to prevent it and respond adequately.
The sessions – jointly conducted by the different partners – discussed the topics of sexual exploitation, the sponsorship system and trafficking for forced labor – including child labor- in addition to an overview of smuggling and trafficking in the context of irregular migration.
They were also followed by the distribution of dignity kits that contain key essential supplies to help women and girls maintain proper hygiene.
“Whatever its nature, the crime of human trafficking remains one of the most heinous crimes. Its perpetrators deserve the most severe penalties, and its victims require protection and assistance to enable them to reintegrate into society,” said Mrs. Claudine Aoun, President of the National Commission for Lebanese Women's Affairs.
Trafficking in persons is a serious crime and a grave violation of human rights. Every year, thousands of men, women and children fall into the hands of traffickers, in their own countries and abroad. Every country in the world is affected by trafficking, whether as a country of origin, transit or destination for victims.
The World Day against Trafficking in Persons was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly, in its resolution A/RES/68/192. on the 30th of July 2013. Such a day is necessary, as declared in the resolution, to “raise awareness of the situation of victims of human trafficking and for the promotion and protection of their rights.”
The Activity is part of projects funded by Switzerland, Cyprus, and the Netherlands.
For more information, please contact:
IOM - Ms. Tala Khatib, Communication and Visibility Focal Point - talkhatib@iom.int
UNODC - Ms. Mira Kobeissi, Communication and Visibility Coordinator - mira.kobeissi@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/193208-iom-and-unodc-lebanon-organize-awareness-raising-sessions-world-day-against-trafficking




Date: 22 July 2022
Title: Protecting vulnerable Lebanese and Refugees alike is a Humanitarian Imperative: Statement by Ms. Najat Rochdi, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon
Content: 22 July 2022
I would like to recognize the incredible generosity of the Lebanese people and authorities who have hosted refugees at a time when they have been struggling with their own vulnerabilities, and I would like to express our gratitude for the continued solidarity. The longstanding collaboration of the Lebanese Government in responding to the ongoing impact of the Syria crisis on Lebanon and its people, under the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan (LCRP), and in supporting the most vulnerable populations affected by the unfolding economic crisis under the Emergency Response Plan (ERP), is also highly appreciated and commended.
Amid Lebanon’s unprecedented economic meltdown and significant increases in poverty levels and humanitarian needs, the United Nations (UN) and its partners remain committed to supporting the most vulnerable populations based on needs regardless of their nationality, disability, religion, gender, sexuality, or place of origin.
Over the past year, the Humanitarian Community, including the UN through the LCRP and ERP, has increased its support to the Lebanese people, families, communities, and public institutions to lessen the impact of the multiple crises and meet the dire needs of the most vulnerable, as part of its primary mission to Leave No One Behind. These efforts have translated (from 2021 up to May 2022) into the provision of direct humanitarian assistance to over 1.6 million Lebanese, including cash assistance, food, health, education, protection, shelter, and water services; in addition to supporting around 200 Lebanese municipalities in strengthening their basic service provision and reducing resource pressure in high-risk communities. Other resources are also being invested in development and capacity-building in response to the ongoing crisis.
The humanitarian community wishes to reiterate and clarify that the protection of the most vulnerable women, men, boys, and girls is of high priority to the UN and its partners and that the UN is always willing to engage in a constructive dialogue with the Government of Lebanon (GoL). I would also like to recall the commitment of the GoL to the principle of non-refoulement under international law, and to the principle of ensuring the safe, voluntary, and dignified return of refugees.
As such, I call on everyone to refrain from fueling the media and social media with negative sentiments and hatred, and I count on all to continue to display the spirit of solidarity and mutual respect in these difficult times.
******
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/191405-protecting-vulnerable-lebanese-and-refugees-alike-humanitarian-imperative-statement-ms-najat




Date: 21 July 2022
Title: The United Nations in Lebanon Launches Fund to Support Women’s Rights Organizations to Improve Women’s participation in peacebuilding in Lebanon
Content: 21 July 2022

The WPHF is a flexible and rapid financing tool supporting quality interventions to enhance the capacity of local women around the world to prevent conflict, respond to crises and emergencies, and seize key peacebuilding opportunities.
There cannot be any sustainable peace, security, or development without the effective participation of women, in all their diversity. Their meaningful participation is also not possible if funding and support are not provided to those working in their own communities, to build a culture of peace.
“Women continue to have to fight for their voices to be heard, despite abundant evidence on the link between women’s participation and peace. We need more women in decision-making and in peacebuilding efforts to ensure Lebanon’s sustained recovery,” said the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Ms. Najat Rochdi. “Congratulations to the eight women-led organizations and our sincere thanks and gratitude to the Government of Germany for its steady support, which is much-needed for Lebanon’s recovery and development,” she added.
Supported by the Government of Germany, with complementary funding from the Government of Finland, the WPHF in Lebanon will provide funding to eight local women’s rights organizations. The WPHF’s second Call For Proposal was open from 1 February to mid-March 2022 whereby a total of 42 proposals were submitted, of which 13 were shortlisted, representing a variety of feminist and women and youth-led organizations. The shortlisted proposals were thoroughly reviewed by the National Steering Committee, which endorsed 8 new projects, on 26 April 2022.
This second window of the WPHF in Lebanon simultaneously seeks to support, through unearmarked funds, the institutional strengthening of women-led and community-based organizations working on peacebuilding efforts at the local level, while providing funding for specific peacebuilding initiatives.
“We owe it to those championing peace on the frontlines to provide them with timely and accessible funding that is responsive to their realities”, stated Rachel Dore-Weeks, Head of UN Women in Lebanon at the launch of the second window.
The first window of the WPHF was launched in Lebanon after the 2020 Beirut Port Explosion. The 6 grantees and 1 sub-grantee funded under the first window led recovery initiatives within their communities, rebuilding community centres, partnering with security institutions to invest in disaster risk preparedness, and supporting accountability tools for women’s inclusion in Lebanon’s recovery process. This second window builds on the work of the first-phase grantees who have also established mentoring relationships with those beginning their work under this second phase.
The work funded, which will begin in August 2022 and run through to December 2023, seeks to build peace through advocacy, art, and women-led peace spaces, dialogues, and student clubs.
“Less than two years ago, Germany decided to help set up the Women’s Peace and Humanitarian Fund in Lebanon with the aim of strengthening small grassroots women-led organizations. The WPHF has indeed lived up to the expectations and delivered impressive work in its first round. We are all proud of the 7 inspiring organizations we have so far partnered with and wish the new participants success. Germany renews its trust in the fund and in the civil society organizations that have courageously stepped up in response to Lebanon’s enduring crisis.” Stated Mr. Andreas Kindl, The German ambassador to Lebanon.
-----------
About the WPHF:
The Women’s Peace & Humanitarian Fund (WPHF) is the only global financing mechanism dedicated exclusively to supporting women’s participation in peacebuilding and humanitarian action. WPHF is a flexible and rapid financing tool supporting quality interventions to enhance the capacity of local women to prevent conflict, respond to crises and emergencies, and seize key peacebuilding opportunities. WPHF is an innovative partnership between Member States, the UN, and civil society, with all stakeholders represented on its global Funding Board. UN Women provides secretariat support to WPHF and ensures coordination to implement the decisions of the Funding Board. WPHF donors currently include Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Estonia, European Union (Spotlight Initiative), Germany, Ireland, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. WPHF is actively supporting over 345 local women’s organizations across 22 of its 25 eligible countries and has mobilized a total of $58 Million USD for grassroots women’s rights and women-led organizations working in settings of conflict and humanitarian emergency.
About the selected NGOs:
Stream 1 –Institutional Support.
Stream 2

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/191377-united-nations-lebanon-launches-fund-support-women%E2%80%99s-rights-organizations-improve-women%E2%80%99s




Date: 07 July 2022
Title: Security Council Press Statement: Call for the swift formation of a new government in Lebanon
Content: 07 July 2022
7 July 2022, United Nations -- The members of the Security Council took note of the appointment of Najib Mikati as the new designated Prime Minister on 23 June, as well as the presentation by the latter of his government line-up to the President of the Republic of Lebanon on 29 June.
Over a month after legislative elections in Lebanon, the members of the Security Council call for expediting the formation of a government to implement necessary reforms. Given the intensity of the compounding crises in Lebanon, it is the responsibility and duty of all political actors to work together to prioritize the national interest and to rise to the challenges facing the Lebanese people.
The members of the Security Council encouraged measures to promote youth participation and to enhance women’s full, equal and meaningful political participation and representation, including in the new government, as well as their economic empowerment. They emphasized the vital importance of adhering to the constitutional calendar so that the presidential election takes place on time.
The members of the Security Council also recalled the need for urgent implementation of previously outlined tangible reforms that would enable the quick conclusion of an agreement with the IMF to respond to the demands of the Lebanese population. They stressed the role of the Lebanese institutions, including the newly elected Parliament and the new Government, in the implementation of the reforms necessary to tackle the unprecedented crisis, root out corruption, and deliver more responsive governance. They also underlined the importance of delivering those reforms in order to ensure effective international support.
They underscored that the stability of Lebanon is a shared priority.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/190721-security-council-press-statement-call-swift-formation-new-government-lebanon




Date: 29 June 2022
Title: UN Lebanon Joint Statement in support of LGBTIQ+ in Lebanon
Content: 29 June 2022
The United Nations is concerned about the rising hate speech, discrimination, and violence towards Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Intersex, and Queer (LGBTIQ+) individuals and organizations in Lebanon.
As enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and under the United Nations’ global commitment to leave no one behind, we encourage the Government of Lebanon to respect its national and international human rights obligations, including the rights of all people to freedom of assembly, association, and expression - regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or sex characteristics.
While Lebanon has taken some steps towards addressing discrimination against LGBTIQ+ persons in recent years, including during the most recent Universal Periodic Review of Human Rights in 2021[1], recent events suggest a rollback on human rights, particularly for certain marginalized groups.
We urge the Lebanese authorities to fulfill their obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) to which Lebanon is a signatory, and prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, and expression.
We will continue to advocate for equality, inclusion, and full human rights guarantees for all segments of the population, including the realization for all of the rights to freedom of expression, assembly, and association.
********

[1] https://www.ohchr.org/en/hr-bodies/upr/lb-index

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/188293-un-lebanon-joint-statement-support-lgbtiq-lebanon




Date: 27 June 2022
Title: Statement of the International Support Group for Lebanon
Content: 27 June 2022
The ISG urges Lebanese stakeholders, including executive and legislative authorities, to work quickly on the swift formation of a government that can implement important outstanding reforms in order to relieve the suffering of the Lebanese people. In particular, the authorities must deliver on commitments made in the 7 April staff-level agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), including budget laws, capital control, banking secrecy, banking resolution, government and central bank decisions on banking resolution and exchange rate unification, to lay a solid basis for socio-economic relief and a sustainable recovery of Lebanon. This is best achieved through an agreement with the IMF, supported by the international donors’ community.
The ISG continues to stand by Lebanon and its people.

Note to Editors
The International Support Group has brought together the United Nations and the governments of China, France, Germany, Italy, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, together with the European Union and the Arab League.  It was launched in September 2013 by the UN Secretary-General with former President Michel Sleiman to help mobilize support and assistance for Lebanon’s stability, sovereignty and state institutions.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/187941-statement-international-support-group-lebanon




Date: 23 June 2022
Title: Regional Technical Offices offer valuable solutions to Lebanese municipalities and unions of municipalities in strengthening local governance and enhancing municipal services
Content: 23 June 2022

This comes at a time where the current economic crisis is severely impacting communities as well as municipalities and Unions of Municipalities in Lebanon. Due to the crises, communities are increasingly turning to local authorities for basic services and employment opportunities. However, the crisis has also constrained municipalities and unions of municipalities in their ability to address these rising needs.
The concept of the RTO was created and initiated by UN-Habitat in 2007 as a local tool that aims to strengthen local governance, enhance service delivery, improve municipal planning, and respond to emergencies. The RTO, which performs as part of a municipality or union of municipalities, is comprised of local technical and social experts who support and enhance municipal planning and the provision of municipal services. Currently there are RTOs at the Union of Tyre Municipalities, the Urban Community Al-Fayhaa, and Bourj Hammoud Municipality. Since their inception, these RTOs have played a crucial role in overall development planning and the implementation of basic service and local economic development projects to address community needs.
“Lebanese municipalities and unions of municipalities are a solid core in the local and regional development process. It has become necessary for local authorities to have Regional Technical Offices (RTOs) that provide the needed technical expertise and play a leading role in formulating plans, preparing projects, and submitting proposals.” Said DGLAC Director General, Faten Abou Hassan.
She added. “The Directorate General of Local Administrations and Councils (DGLAC) remains available to provide additional technical advice and necessary training courses on the legal and organizational framework that regulates municipal projects, financial management, and procurement, among others.”
Eng. Hassan Dbouk, Head of Union of Tyre Municipalities, said “The Regional Technical Office is an efficient tool that support and contribute to well-designed local development plans through data collection, analysis and interpretation.”
“The discussion today, among local and international partners, is an opportunity to learn from each other, to discuss how RTOs can support municipalities and Unions in the current crisis period, what can be done to support establishing new offices in other municipalities and unions, and how they can be sustained in the future.” Said Marija de Wijn, Chief Technical Advisor, MERP.
“In Lebanon, the EU is supporting municipalities and unions of municipalities to improve their resilience, support local sustainable planning, basic service delivery and economic development for all citizens and refugees. Through funding the establishment of Regional Technical Offices, the European Union empowers local government in Lebanon to better serve local residents”, said Alessia Squarcella, Deputy Head of Cooperation, Team Leader – Economy, Green Deal and Local Development, the European Union Delegation to Lebanon.
The discussion highlighted the importance of willingness of municipalities and unions of municipalities to ensure the sustainability of RTOs. This requires strong ownership of local authorities when establishing RTOs and in supporting their functioning. Another point highlighted is the need for RTO staff to be part of the national capacity development plan such as implemented by the Formation Center for Municipalities (CEFOM).
During the event, the newly commissioned RTO website page was launched (https://unhabitat.org/project/regional-technical-office-rto). The web page provides information about the role and functions of the RTO, along with tools to ensure the sustainability of these offices. These tools include the RTO Standard Operating Manual, Capacity Development Strategy for RTOs, and the Exit Strategy, which will support the hand-over of the RTO from UN-Habitat to the respective municipal authority.

END
For more information please contact:
Aline Kiwan, MERP Media and Communication Officer, at aline.kiwan@un.org, mobile 03-294070

Note to editors
About the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP)
MERP is a joint project by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat). The Project is being implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MoIM) and funded by the European Union (EU), through its Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syrian Crisis, the EU “Madad Fund”. The project aims to strengthen the long-term resilience of subnational authorities in Lebanon as well as host communities and displaced persons affected by the Syrian crisis. Learn more at https://bit.ly/3hBveux
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Learn more at www.unhabitat.org/lebanon or follow us on Twitter at @UNHabitatLB, on Facebook at UN-Habitat Lebanon and on Instagram at UNHabitatLB
About the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet.
Learn more at www.lb.undp.org or follow on Twitter at @UNDP_Lebanon, on Facebook at UNDP Lebanon and on Instagram at UNDP_Lebanon
About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon.
Learn more on the work of the EU in Lebanon or follow on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at @EUinLebanon
Learn more on the EU Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syrian Crisis, the EU Madad Fund, or follow on Twitter at @EU_NEAR, on Facebook at EU Neighbourhood & Enlargement and on Instagram at EU_NEAR
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/187412-regional-technical-offices-offer-valuable-solutions-lebanese-municipalities-and-unions




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: Lebanese Parliament and UN Lebanon Sign Compact to Boost Collaboration
Content: 20 June 2022
This compact aims at institutionalizing the existing bilateral partnership between the two parties and at expanding the scope of cooperation to ensure a coordinated, coherent, and integrated approach to supporting the Lebanese Parliament in achieving necessary reform priorities, with the technical support of the UN in Lebanon.
They both welcomed the progress made in strengthening the existing cooperation between the UNCT and the Lebanese Parliament and stressed the importance of fostering and institutionalizing this partnership as well as scaling up joint efforts in instituting reforms.
Attached below is a copy of the signed Partnership compact between the UN and the Lebanese Parliament.
***THE END ***

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/186932-lebanese-parliament-and-un-lebanon-sign-compact-boost-collaboration




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: Launch of the 2022 Lebanon Crisis Response Plan (LCRP): Government, UN and partners appeal for US $3.2 billion
Content: 20 June 2022
Eleven years into the Syria crisis, the Government of Lebanon and its national and international partners today appealed for $3.2 billion to address the ongoing impact of the Syria crisis through delivery of critical assistance to people in need and support to Lebanon’s public infrastructure, services and local economy, amid deepening vulnerabilities. The Lebanon Crisis Response Plan brings together more than 126 partners to assist 3.2 million people in need living in Lebanon. It aims to provide support to 1.5 million Lebanese, 1.5 million displaced Syrians, and more than 209,000 Palestinian refugees.
The Lebanon Crisis Response Plan 2022 is a multi-stakeholder response co-led by the Government and the UN and contributed to by a wide range of entities including local and international NGOs. The response plan takes an integrated approach to addressing the needs of both Syrian displaced, Palestine refugees from Syria and the Lebanese host communities through a combination of humanitarian and stabilization interventions, including a focus on the maintenance of service provision through public institutions at the local level.
The $9 billion assistance provided through the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan since 2015 has shown tangible results for the host population and displaced persons. In 2021, nearly 2.3 million subsidized health consultations were provided through Primary Healthcare Centres, including over one million consultations to vulnerable Lebanese and over one million to displaced Syrians. More than $375 million was injected into Lebanon’s economy through cash-based interventions supporting vulnerable Syrian, Lebanese and Palestinian families. In response to the growing food needs, a total of 2.1 million individuals across these populations were provided with cash-based and in-kind food assistance, an increase of 45% compared to 2020. Within this number, 572,000 people received food parcels, including over 350,000 Lebanese. Amid growing mental health needs, more than 26,300 Syrian, Lebanese and Palestinian children and 10,000 caregivers benefited from focused psychosocial support activities. To seek to preserve economic and social stability, more than 119 municipalities were supported to strengthen basic service provision and reduce resource pressure through community support projects in high-risk communities, including rehabilitation of infrastructure for livelihoods, education and agricultural land.
“Lebanon has been hosting displaced Syrians now for more than 11 years. As resources are further stretched by the economic crisis, increased support to the displaced and for the Lebanese host communities remain a top priority for the Government of Lebanon and its partners. It remains essential for a fair distribution of support without any discrimination to people affected by the crisis, including Lebanese villages and towns hosting the displaced, in order to alleviate the burdens placed upon them. We urge you to stand by Lebanon, its people and government, and by the displaced to respond to their urgent needs, and work together to overcome obstacles to their safe return to their homeland”, said Minister for Social Affairs Hector Hajjar.
“With the continuing impact of the Syria crisis and the current economic crisis in Lebanon pushing everyone to the brink, partners’ joint efforts to support refugees and the host community through the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan remain essential.  Nine out of ten Syrians in Lebanon are living in poverty, while poverty levels have also risen substantially for Lebanese, migrants and Palestinians. These circumstances are driving negative coping mechanisms, as families are forced to send their children to work instead of school, skip meals or incur debt. It is important that municipalities are supported to keep basic services running amid massive capacity gaps”, said Najat Rochdi, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator.
In 2022, people across Lebanon are falling deeper into poverty due to currency depreciation, high inflation, rising prices and loss of income. Gaps in supply chains including fuel, wheat and electricity continue to impact the operational environment for LCRP partners, while they simultaneously face an increase in pressure from local authorities and communities to provide assistance amid escalating needs.
The Lebanese government has pledged to scale up the number of Lebanese families benefiting from regular cash-based assistance under the government-led National Poverty Targeting Programme, which donors fund under the LCRP, from 36,000 families to 75,000 families over the next two months. Moreover, the government has endorsed the National Social Protection Strategy which aims to provide a sustainable solution and thus enhance comprehensive and inclusive social protection for the most vulnerable groups in Lebanon. Outside of the LCRP, the government has committed to implementing the Emergency Social Safety Net program, financed by the World Bank through a loan, which has provided monthly cash assistance to approximately 60,000 of the poorest Lebanese families in US dollars for a period of one year. It is intended for this program to reach 150,000 families.
The LCRP complements a range of other internationally supported humanitarian and development initiatives in Lebanon. The Emergency Response Plan (ERP), launched in August 2021, aims to address the needs of the most vulnerable among the Lebanese, migrants, and Palestine refugees in Lebanon affected by the multiple crises. A revised appeal for the ERP was issued last week calling for $546 million to meet needs until the end of 2022. The Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Plan launched in 2020 continues to channel further funding to Lebanon, following the Beirut port explosions. The United Nations and the Government of Lebanon also recently signed the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework which aims to move towards a triple nexus approach, putting ultimately an end to humanitarian needs, strengthening the capacity of Lebanese institutions to deliver on their duties and ultimately promoting sustainable development to build the foundations for a prosperous and inclusive Lebanese society, where no one is left behind.

For more information please contact:

MOSA: Dr Ola Boutros, General Supervisor of the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan, +961 3508115
UNHCR: Ms. Dalal Harb, Communications Officer, +961 70 113 107
Ms. Paula Barrachina, Senior Communications Officer, +961 81 312 087
UNDP: Ms. Rana Moughabghab Saab, Senior Communications & Media Officer, +961 3835351
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/186879-launch-2022-lebanon-crisis-response-plan-lcrp-government-un-and-partners-appeal-us-32




Date: 18 June 2022
Title: A time to heal, not to hate
Content: 18 June 2022
Joint statement by the UN Human Rights Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa and the UN Information Centre in Beirut

If the pandemic has taught us anything, it should be that humanity is fragile and life is precious. For many of us, the insular existence of social distancing was deeply isolating, frightening, and traumatic. Grievances with the conditions of the pandemic saw people lash out in online fora, propagating dis- and misinformation, and even blaming individuals and groups for spreading the virus. Xenophobia and hate speech were rampant in a time where community and solidarity were needed more than ever.
As we tentatively emerge from Covid’s shadow, online and offline hostilities, smear and disinformation campaigns continue unabatedly. In a sense, this should come as no surprise: hate speech has been around long before the pandemic. We need only recall horrifying examples such as Rwanda, where vicious hate propaganda catalysed unimaginable atrocity crimes, including genocide. Though the contexts may change, the targets tend to be the same – society’s most marginalised and at-risk. This includes ethnic and religious minorities, women, refugees and migrants, people of colour, the LGBTI community – victims of racism, Islamophobia, antisemitism, xenophobia, homophobia, transphobia, and misogyny.
As the old adage goes, “sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me”. Unfortunately, that is not quite the case in practice. Words can be weapons. Hate speech online can cause harm in real life. Hate speech is in itself an attack on tolerance, inclusion, diversity, and the very essence of human rights. It further undermines social cohesion, erodes shared values, and can lay the foundation for violence.
The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region is not immune to the ills of hate speech. Communities across the region have encountered unimaginable horrors at the hands of non-state groups who have used elaborate propaganda methods to rally hate. The so-called Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) were devastatingly effective in their hateful rhetoric and propaganda against ethnic and religious groups, such as the Yazidi and Christian communities, but also against Muslims, as well as LGBTI persons.
There have also been incidents across the region of religious clerics preaching messages of intolerance, in particular against minority religions, and triggering real acts of aggression. The Israeli/Palestinian conflict has further exposed toxic and dangerous hate speech. United Nations human rights experts have condemned hate speech and incitement to violence against Palestinians by extreme Israeli right wing groups, as we saw last month when such groups marched through the Old City of Jerusalem chanting deeply offensive and racist messages inciting to violence. Recently, the United Nations also expressed alarm at increasing antisemitism online and offline, both in the MENA region and globally.
How then should we address hate speech? We must first ensure that whatever strategy we adopt fully respects the human right to freedom of expression, essential to the realisation of other human rights and the cornerstone of democracy. Freedom of expression not only protects the right to express views that are favourably received, but also those that express critical and divergent views. Importantly, expressing criticism of public officials and public institutions cannot be characterised as hate speech or justify the restriction of the right to freedom of expression.
The United Nations Strategy and Plan of Action on Hate Speech defines hate speech as “any kind of communication in speech, writing or behaviour, that attacks or uses pejorative or discriminatory language with reference to a person or a group on the basis of who they are, in other words, based on their religion, ethnicity, nationality, race, colour, descent, gender or other identity factor.”
Hate speech, thus defined, should in most cases not be made illegal; only when it reaches the level of incitement to discrimination, hostility and violence does international law call for its proscription. Incitement is a very dangerous form of speech, because it explicitly and deliberately aims at triggering real harm, which may also include terrorism or atrocity crimes.
Rather than criminalizing hate speech that does not rise to the level of incitement, the best way to address hate speech is through more speech, not less. More public discourse and campaigns against discrimination; more speaking out for victims of hate speech; more public initiatives and exchanges to celebrate diversity. Tackling hate speech is the responsibility of all – governments, societies, the private sector, starting with individual women and men. In addition, education is key to addressing hate speech – in this the digital age, we must support a new generation of digital citizens, empowered to recognize, reject and stand up to hate speech.
As UN Secretary-General António Guterres has stressed, diversity is a strength, not a weakness. Political leaders and parliamentarians must refrain from fuelling hateful narratives, and speak out against discrimination in all its forms. They should use their public platform to promote diversity, pluralism and mutual respect among individuals and communities. Religious leaders also have a crucial role in speaking out against hate speech, expressing solidarity with those targeted by such expressions, and amplifying messages that serve to reduce discrimination. In the MENA region and beyond, dialogue among different faiths and religions is essential to enhance mutual understanding, harmony and cooperation among people. Indeed, the moral imperatives of all religions, convictions and beliefs call for peace, tolerance and mutual understanding.
The media, too, should promote tolerance and respect for religious and cultural diversity, and human rights for all. It should ensure fact-checked and unbiased news coverage, free from derogatory stereotyping or labelling, while at the same time using its platform to cover inclusive public interest stories reflecting society’s diversity.
Similarly, social media companies must maximize access to pluralistic information, as well as promote transparency on how they curate and moderate content. They should also provide for effective and accessible redress channels for people targeted by incitement or censorship online.
Today, as we mark the first International Day for Countering Hate Speech, we must remind ourselves that hatred is a danger to everyone – and so fighting it must be a job for everyone. We can all take action to say #NoToHate.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/186683-time-heal-not-hate




Date: 15 June 2022
Title: The Lebanon Humanitarian Fund (LHF) allocates $16 million to support people in need in Lebanon
Content: 15 June 2022
“Needs continue growing day by day and it is essential for the humanitarian community to adjust the response and assist all those most in need. The LHF is a flexible funding instrument that enables a Whole of Lebanon response”, said Mrs Rochdi.
Under this allocation, through a collaborative, inclusive and transparent approach, 27 sectoral and multi-sectoral projects for 25 national and international non-governmental organisations have been funded to address the most urgent needs and alleviate human suffering of Lebanese, migrants, Palestine refugees and Syrian refugees in the most affected areas. 65 per cent of the allocated funding is targeting Lebanese, 31 per cent for Syrian refugees, and the remaining amount for migrants and Palestine refugees.
In addition to prioritizing key sectors, such as child protection, education, food security, health, nutrition, protection, shelter and WASH, this LHF allocation also promotes innovation, integrated programming, cash-based interventions, accountability to affected populations, protection from sexual exploitation and abuse, inclusion and capacity development for local and national organizations.
“As humanitarian community, we will continue to stand side by side with the most vulnerable people to protect and save lives and avoid a further deterioration of their already dire conditions. I am thankful fo donors for their continued generosity and trust in the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund,” added the Humanitarian Coordinator.
The LHF is a country-based pooled fund led by the Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon and managed by OCHA. Since its inception in 2014, the LHF has received over US$ 122 million from donors to support the delivery of timely and effective humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable people in Lebanon regardless their status. Strong monitoring systems are in place to ensure that assistance reaches the most vulnerable based on needs.

For more Information, please contact:
- Ms. Rosaria Bruno, Head of Office – UNOCHA Lebanon. Email: bruno1@un.org, phone + 96171907930
- Ms. Naiera Ellethy, Public Information Officer- UNOCHA Lebanon. Email: naiera.ahmed@un.org;
phone + 201022475440

END
******
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/186318-lebanon-humanitarian-fund-lhf-allocates-16-million-support-people-need-lebanon




Date: 11 June 2022
Title: UN-Habitat revives five alleyways in Maraach through a multi-sectoral urban regeneration approach
Content: 11 June 2022

Through support provided by Polish Aid, and under the scope of a wider urban recovery project funded through the Government of Japan, the project was able to regenerate the alleyways by responding to pre-existing explosion needs and additional ones identified after the Beirut Port explosion.
The closing event included a tour inside the alleyways of Maraach, where officials met with beneficiaries of the project and heard their first-hand perspective on how the project has helped improve their lives and that of the wider community.
“Having experienced the horrific repercussions of the first two nuclear explosions in human history, the priority that Japan has allocated to respond swiftly to assist Lebanon following the devastating explosion of the Port of Beirut, came not only due to the historical diplomatic relations that bind the two countries, but also out of deep sympathy with the Lebanese people.Japan will continue to stand by Lebanon during its recovery journey considering that the stability of Lebanon is essential for the stability of the entire region, ” said Mihara Kiyoshi, representative of the Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon.
“Poland has received a great support from our friends from all around the world when it was most needed. Now, to the best of our capabilities, we are offering our solidarity and assistance to those who are in challenging situation. We were doing so for Lebanon for the past years. I am happy that despite all the challenges, together with UN-Habitat, Embassy of Japan, Bourj Hammoud Municipality and the Polish Center for International Aid we were able to bring a positive change and assistance to those who are in need, ” said H.E. Przemysław Niesiołowski, Ambassador of Poland to Lebanon.
‘‘This multi-sectoral project proved to be a great testament to the significance of improving social cohesion during the most challenging times. We are very grateful for this timely and most needed contribution from the Government of Japan, Polish Aid and UN-Habitat,’’ said Mardig Boghossian, Mayor of Bourj Hammoud.
"Today’s visit to Bourj Hammoud and meeting with some of its residents shed light on two realities: We can make a difference and bring hope to the people despite the painful impact of the socio-economic crisis compounded by the Beirut Port blast,” said UN Special Coordinator Joanna Wronecka. “The rehabilitation work in this neighborhood undertaken so skillfully by our UN Habitat colleagues with the support of Japan and Poland is a reflection of the UN and international community’s determination to continue supporting Lebanon and its people.” But, the Special Coordinator added, “long-term recovery will only be possible when meaningful reforms are implemented and people’s interests are prioritized."
The project rehabilitated 90 building facades and 5 alleyways by improving street mobility and safety and access to urban basic services. It included the installation of solar panels, which is providing green, reliable and cost-effective lighting to the community, its public spaces and streets, enhancing safety, with the surplus going back to the national grid. The community was involved in every step of the project from design to implementation using their skills to support the rehabilitation work, through cash-for-work while a consultative local committee oversaw the project's interventions.
UN-Habitat and the Polish Centre for International Aid (PCPM) trained and distributed firefighting equipment to 54 community members and delivered a customized rapid fire intervention vehicle with a high-pressure pump for use in dense urban areas to the Lebanese Civil Defence Centre in Bourj Hammoud. The Centre was also rehabilitated by its members through cash-for-work.
‘‘We are proud of how this project has helped the people living in Maraach weather some of the most difficult times Lebanon has faced. As we continue to apply an area-based approach to support Lebanese cities recover from ongoing crises, we re-affirm our commitment to improving the lives of people across the nation as we move forward for a better urban future,’’ said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
The project, entitled “Improving the well-being of host and refugee populations in Maraach sub-neighbourhood in Bourj Hammoud” and funded by the Polish Aid, launched in 2019, yet following the Beirut Port explosion, more support was needed, thus the Government of Japan, supported in the rehabilitation of 3 alleyways.
This intervention is also part of UN-Habitat’s wider project entitled “Support for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of most vulnerable urban areas in Beirut impacted by the Port explosion” funded by the Government of Japan. It has multiple interventions, including the rehabilitation of 11 heritage buildings of heritage value and key public facilities in Rmeil Cluster; COVID-19 awareness-raising and installation of handwashing stations; improved livelihood through cash-for-work activities; support under municipal services – provided to the Beirut Fire Brigade Centre in Karantina; and, upgrading of Laziza and William Hawi Parks.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/185818-un-habitat-revives-five-alleyways-maraach-through-multi-sectoral-urban-regeneration-approach




Date: 02 June 2022
Title: UN-Habitat and the Municipality of Beirut join forces for sustainable urban development in the city of Beirut
Content: 02 June 2022

“The Beirut Municipality, deserves to be an advanced an modern especially when it comes to the data collection and sorting. This project with UN-Habitat will be the first step to put the Municipality of Beirut on the roadmap of digitalization and evolvement so we can better manage the assets and change the course of municipal work. We thank you for your collaboration and with our partnership we can achieve all tasks.‘’ Said Governor of Beirut, Honourable Judge Marwan Abboud.
“Our successful partnership with UN-Habitat has been ongoing for years, and together we completed many projects. Following the Beirut Port explosion, the UN-Habitat team were and are still an integral part of our efforts to help the city recover. With this MoU being signed today we will benefit more from the agency’s global expertise that will guide our team work towards facing future challenges to make our city better” said Jamal Itani, Mayor of Beirut Municipality.”
“As UN-Habitat, it is within the core of our mandate to support and empower local authorities and municipalities. Together with the Municipality of Beirut we will be able to further promote transformative change in cities and human settlements through knowledge, policy advice, technical assistance and collaborative action to leave no one and no place behind.” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon.“With this MoU being signed today, we will be joining hands to help Beirut better recover and achieve a better urban future,” she concluded.
This agreement will further allow UN-Habitat and the Municipality of Beirut to work strategically on planning, coordinating resources, and developing a common expertise through shared experiences, to construct a sustainable urban future for the city of Beirut. The MoU further focuses on streamlining ongoing recovery and development plans following the Beirut Port explosion and later extend it to other areas within the boundaries of the city of Beirut. To support these efforts a customized GIS tracking platform will be established to monitor and register the workflow of ongoing interventions by multiple actors and stakeholders across the boundaries of Beirut. This platform will be sustained by equipping relevant municipal staff with the necessary skills and capacities to observe active recovery projects in Beirut.
-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/184571-un-habitat-and-municipality-beirut-join-forces-sustainable-urban-development-city-beirut




Date: 20 May 2022
Title: A new Regional Technical Office (RTO) brings local governance closer to the community of Bourj Hammoud
Content: 20 May 2022

"Administrative, legal and financial obstacles are preventing the municipalities from keeping pace with the development of municipal work in terms of human energies and technical resources. This RTO office provided the municipality with the necessary qualifications and equipment, it contributed to keeping pace with various initiatives and projects from the study phase to the design and monitoring until its implementation.” Said Mayor of Bourj Hammoud Municipality, Mardig Boghossian.
The concept of the RTO was created and initiated by UN-Habitat since 2007 as a local tool that aims to strengthen local governance, enhance service delivery, and improve municipal planning. Performing as part of a municipality or union of municipalities (UoM), the RTO is comprised of local technical and social experts, who’s role it is to support and enhance the planning and provision of public and municipal services based on their expertise.
“Lebanese municipalities and unions of municipalities are a solid core in the local and regional development process. It has become necessary for local authorities to have Regional Technical Offices (RTOs) that provide the needed technical expertise and play a leading role in formulating plans, preparing projects, and submitting proposals,” said DGLAC Director General, Faten Abou Hassan.
She added. “The Directorate General of Local Administrations and Councils (DGLAC) remains available to provide additional technical advice and necessary training courses on the legal and organizational framework that regulates municipal projects, financial management, and procurement, among others.”
“UN-Habitat launched the first RTO in 2007 to empower unions in emergency response, planning, and development, and specifically to support housing reconstruction and local development in South Lebanon. Thanks to the great impact and success that RTOs have had on the ground, we widened its scope to also focus on longer-term development interventions by providing the technical support to assess, prioritize and design sound urban interventions that answer the needs of each area,” said Taina Christiansen, UN-Habitat Head of Country Programme in Lebanon. “Today, we are extremely proud to inaugurate a new RTO with hopes that it will also achieve great results for a better urban future for the city and its residents,” she added.
“Through MERP, UNDP has together with partner unions and municipalities, identified key basic service and local economic development interventions to support communities in these times of crisis; this includes, for instance, the rehabilitation of the fire department of the Urban Community of Al-Fayha’a and the rehabilitation of the ‘Hesbe’ agricultural market in Tyre. UNDP has benefited from RTO expertise in reviewing the design and development of these initiatives.” Said Melanie Hauenstein, UNDP Resident Representative in Lebanon.
She added. “For the institutionalization of the RTO model to be ensured, it is crucial that development partners beyond UN-Habitat and UNDP engage with RTOs when implementing their local economic development and basic service projects.”
“In Lebanon, the EU is supporting municipalities and unions of municipalities to improve their resilience, support local sustainable planning, basic service delivery and economic development for all citizens and refugees. Through funding the establishment of Regional Technical Offices, the European Union empowers local government in Lebanon to better serve local residents”, said Alessia Squarcella, Deputy Head of Cooperation, Team Leader – Economy, Green Deal and Local Development, the European Union Delegation to Lebanon.
During the event the newly commissioned RTO Standard Operating Manual, Capacity Development Strategy, and the Exit Strategy, which will support the hand-over of the RTO from UN-Habitat to the respective municipal authority, were also launched and made available to municipalities and unions. The manual and strategies will serve as a guiding tool to ensure the sustainability of these offices and to preserve and enhance core competencies and skills while enabling RTOs to fulfil their mandate in an autonomous and self-sustaining fashion.
This event is delivered under the patronage of the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities, with support from the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP). MERP is a joint initiative implemented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) and is funded by the European Union through its Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syrian Crisis “Madad Fund”.
END
For more information please contact:
Aline Kiwan, MERP Media and Communication Officer, at aline.kiwan@un.org, mobile 03-294070
Layal Abou Antoun, UN-Habitat Lebanon, layal.abouantoun@un.org, mobile +961 81 512629
Note to editors
About the Municipal Empowerment and Resilience Project (MERP)
MERP is a joint project by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat). The Project is being implemented in partnership with the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MoIM) and funded by the European Union (EU), through its Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syrian Crisis, the EU “Madad Fund”. The project aims to strengthen the long-term resilience of subnational authorities in Lebanon as well as host communities and displaced persons affected by the Syrian crisis. Learn more at https://bit.ly/3hBveux

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Learn more at www.unhabitat.org/lebanon or follow us on Twitter at @UNHabitatLB, on Facebook at UN-Habitat Lebanon and on Instagram at UN-HabitatLB
About the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and the planet.

Learn more at www.lb.undp.org or follow on Twitter at @UNDP_Lebanon, on Facebook at UNDP Lebanon and on Instagram at UNDP_Lebanon
About the European Union (EU)
The European Union supports Lebanon’s stability, independence and sovereignty, its prosperity and democratic order. It strives also to help protect its environment and natural resources by supporting sustainable enterprise and development. The European Union is also committed to the promotion and protection of human rights in Lebanon including defending gender equality, children’s rights and freedom of expression. The EU Delegation in Lebanon represents the European Union to the Republic of Lebanon with the objective to maintain and develop mutual beneficial relations. It engages in political, social and economic development activities on behalf of the European Union and based on the most pressing needs of the country of Lebanon.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/183202-new-regional-technical-office-rto-brings-local-governance-closer-community-bourj-hammoud




Date: 19 May 2022
Title: WHO and Italian Embassy Sign Agreement to Strengthen Hospital Care
Content: 19 May 2022

“This generous fund is a continuation of the Italian government’s support to the health system in Lebanon. As always we remain true to our motto that health should be available for all. And I like to add that no one should be left behind,” said Dr. Iman Shankiti.
This project is implemented by WHO in close coordination with the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) in Lebanon in line with the Ministry’s priorities.
Nicoletta Bombardiere, Ambassador of Italy in Lebanon,  said: “The goal of the Italian Cooperation is to contribute to global health by promoting universal health coverage, equity and access to health for all.  Strengthening the public health system and improving quality health services are key examples of our strategy in this sector in Lebanon.”
Alessandra Piermattei, Director of AICS Beirut, said: “For the Italian Cooperation, health is an essential aspect of the social and economic development of the population. For this reason, we consider access to medicine and health care very important in the current difficult context in Lebanon.”
The government of Italy has always been at the forefront of supporting the Lebanese people by providing generous contributions for to the strengthening of the health system, both in terms of governance as well as infrastructure, and in terms of improving the quality of care, especially in emergency care.
Furthermore, the Government of Italy provided an emergency donation of pediatric cancer medications, with a value of 500,000 euros, that were delivered to the Lebanese Ministry of Public Health through the World Health Organization.
__________________________________________________________________________
For further information, please contact
WHO Lebanon, Hala Habib, WHO communication officer, hhabib@who.int, +961 3 870 459

Embassy of Italy Beirut - Press Office
Tel +961 (05) 954955  , Fax+961 (05) 959616 , Press.Beirut@esteri.it
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/182743-who-and-italian-embassy-sign-agreement-strengthen-hospital-care




Date: 18 May 2022
Title: Lebanon Financing Facility Supports Beirut’s Environmental Recovery Efforts and Solid Waste Management
Content: 18 May 2022
The Beirut Critical Environment Recovery, Restoration and Waste Management Program, signed today between the World Bank and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) in the presence of HE Minister of Environment Nasser Yassine, is financed by the Lebanon Financing Facility (LFF), a multi-donor trust fund established in December 2020 following the launch of the Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework (3RF) to pool grant resources and coordinate financing in support of the immediate socio-economic recovery of vulnerable people and businesses impacted by the Port of Beirut explosion on August 4, 2020.
According to the Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment prepared in response to the explosion, physical damages to the environment sector were assessed at US$20 to 25 million and recovery and reconstruction needs were estimated at US$75 to 100 million. The explosion caused severe environmental impacts from resulting huge quantities of waste streams, including hazardous and electronic waste and debris. It also caused significant damage to municipal solid waste management infrastructure; pollution of the marine ecosystem around the explosion site; loss of green cover/vegetation in Beirut City; and short term increase in dust levels (particulate matter) containing asbestos, during demolition, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of damaged buildings. The presence of hazardous waste material in various waste streams poses a direct and immediate threat to the population and the environment in Beirut.
“We are launching today the fourth LFF financed project, after three other projects that address the recovery needs of micro- and small-enterprises, the social recovery needs of affected population groups and housing reconstruction and rehabilitation of cultural and creative industries in damaged neighborhoods in the city,” said Saroj Kumar Jha, World Bank Mashreq Regional Director. “This project will implement environment recovery activities in the city of Beirut to mitigate risks of a solid waste crisis and other environmental impacts which resulted from the Port of Beirut explosion. The project will also strengthen the basis for environmental governance in Lebanon more broadly.”
The Beirut Critical Environment Recovery, Restoration and Waste Management Program will help manage and dispose of asbestos-contaminated demolition waste generated from the damaged buildings, rehabilitate damaged solid waste infrastructure and provide technical assistance for their sustainable operation. The project will rehabilitate two damaged solid waste treatment facilities – the Karantina solid waste sorting facility and Coral composting facility. It will also support the improvement of the overall waste management system in Beirut through the implementation of demonstration pilots on integrated solid wate management, including the sorting, collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste, in selected areas impacted by the explosion. Local communities will be engaged in the selection of these pilots, the design of treatement approaches and the evaluation of their performance.
Building on its technical expertise in the environmental and waste management sector, strong local presence, and environment project implementation experience, the project will be implemented by UNDP, in close coordination with the Ministry of Environment as well as relevant ministries and other stakehodlers.
"Addressing the impacts of the port explosion on the environment and people's health is of the utmost importance," said Melanie Hauenstein, UNDP Resident Representative. "The needs in this sector are growing more and more urgent every day, especially on solid waste management and other environmental issues. Our partnership with the World Bank ensures timely action for a sustainable environmental recovery for all of Beirut and beyond. Our approach puts the people of Lebanon at the center, to mitigate the impact of waste, pollution and environmental changes on people's health and well-being."
The project will adopt the principles of “Build Back Better, Greener, and Smarter” as identified in the 3RF and will employ elements of fit for purpose, right siting, climate change adaptation, climate smart practices, and greening of project investments. This will be done through the development of a strategic framework for greening Beirut’s reconstruction based on a consultative approach with stakeholders and technical assistance and laboratory analysis for adopting an evidence-based methodology for future environmental action.
The project will also prioritize citizen engagement activities through meaningful consultation and feedback mechanisms, participatory mechanisms, citizen-led mechanisms, and the potential for creation of green jobs, given that the waste sector is labor intensive. A Grievance Redress Mechanism will be set up to help close the feedback loop on citizens' concerns and questions about project activities and ensure  transparency.
Established in December 2020 in the aftermath of the August 4 Port of Beirut explosion disaster and following the launch of the Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework (3RF), the LFF is a 5 year multi-donor trust fund that will pool grant resources and strengthen the coherence and coordination of financing in support of the immediate socio-economic recovery of vulnerable people and businesses impacted by the explosion. To date, the LFF has received contributions and pledges from the governments of Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, and Norway and from the EU. Subject to the commitment of all Lebanese stakeholders to critical reforms, the LFF will build the foundation for medium-term recovery and the sustainable reconstruction of the Port of Beirut and affected neighborhoods. The LFF prioritizes three focus areas of interventions: 1) Socioeconomic and business recovery; 2) Preparing for reform and reconstruction; and 3) Strengthening coordination, monitoring, accountability and oversight of the 3RF. The LFF will benefit from the World Bank’s high fiduciary standards, through the application of its fiduciary framework for financial management, procurement, and environmental and social safeguards. The LLF will also ensure that programs promote gender equality and community engagement that target women, youth and vulnerable populations. Generous pledges and contributions to date from the governments of Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Norway and from the EU have totaled US$73.57 million.


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/182742-lebanon-financing-facility-supports-beirut%E2%80%99s-environmental-recovery-efforts-and-solid-waste




Date: 18 May 2022
Title: Honoring International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia, Interphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT) in Lebanon
Content: 18 May 2022

While all communities in Lebanon are affected by compounded crises currently facing the country, LGBTIQ+ persons face specific and acute vulnerabilities due to historic and systemic discrimination and marginalization. Despite immense challenges, LGBTIQ+ communities and activists continue to be at the forefront of reclaiming their human rights- as they have been for decades - and have collaborated with international and national partners to address these issues by providing emergency humanitarian assistance and critical social and protection services, while also demanding equal rights from those in government. They continue to facilitate political action and participation, to engage with public opinion and policies through advocacy and social campaigns, to document human rights violations, and to expand knowledge on social justice issues. A LGBTIQ+ task force has been established in Lebanon in 2021, bringing several member states, UN agencies, and national and international organizations together for united actions.
As enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations’ global commitment to leaving no one behind,
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/182426-honoring-international-day-against-homophobia-biphobia-interphobia-and-transphobia-idahobit




Date: 17 May 2022
Title: UN Special Coordinator Congratulates Lebanon on Conduct of Elections, Looks Forward to Active Role of the New Parliament and Swift Formation of a Government
Content: 17 May 2022

“I was pleased to see that the Lebanese authorities delivered parliamentary elections within the constitutional timeline. It was important for the Lebanese people to have a say in choosing the political leadership they believe can tackle the country’s challenges. The elections were a vital expression of Lebanon’s citizen engagement, which should serve to strengthen the country’s institutions,” the Special Coordinator said.
The Special Coordinator welcomed the role played by European Union, other international and local observers in the elections process and noted the preliminary statement of the EU Election Observation Mission Lebanon.
Underlining that the elections are not an end but rather a starting point, the Special Coordinator urged Lebanon’s political leaders to put the country’s interests first and engage constructively to ensure there will be no vacuum nor paralysis in much-needed institutional decision-making, in particular through the swift formation of a reform-oriented government.
To this end, the Special Coordinator noted the important role of the new Parliament in working with the government to prioritize the implementation of reforms and Lebanon’s recovery, including through a final agreement with the International Monetary Fund. “Adoption of the necessary legislation will also be critical for expediting the reform process,” she added.
The Special Coordinator stressed that Lebanon’s rescue and recovery process would remain incomplete in the absence of women’s full participation and representation. “I note that eight women have been elected to the new Parliament. I hope this can be built upon to improve women’s representation in all future national decision-making,” the Special Coordinator said. She also underlined the need for youth participation and involvement.
Noting the long-standing partnership and cooperation between the UN and Lebanon, the Special Coordinator expressed the UN’s readiness to continue supporting Lebanon through the recently adopted UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework and the implementation of relevant UN resolutions, particularly Security Council Resolution 1701 (2006).
The Special Coordinator reiterated the UN’s support for Lebanon’s security, stability, prosperity, political independence and territorial integrity.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/182177-un-special-coordinator-congratulates-lebanon-conduct-elections-looks-forward-active-role-new




Date: 16 May 2022
Title: Japan and UNOPS Continue their Support to Health Sector in Lebanon
Content: 16 May 2022

The ceremony announced the launching of a new project to support additional governmental hospitals in Lebanon. The new project aims at preventing the spread of COVID-19 and strengthening the operational capacity of the Ministry of Public Health to provide essential and quality health services through the urgent provision of necessary equipment and sustainable energy supply to critical health facilities.
Speaking at the ceremony, H.E. Dr. Firas Abiad, the Minister of Public Health of the Lebanese Republic said: “Today, we celebrate the launch of the renewable energy project in a number of governmental hospitals. Thanks to funding from Japan, this important project combines developmental and humanitarian aspects. It supports the sustainability of the facilities and enables them to continue provision of services. The generated savings will enable the hospitals to redirect the funds to support staff, purchase medicines and supplies, which will ease the burden on the patients”.
H.E. Mr. Takeshi Okubo, the Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon said: “Japan is committed to the sustainability of the public health sector during these challenging times through helping medical institutions ensure uninterrupted provision of healthcare services. Japan believes that a comprehensive governmental strategy for the introduction and expansion of renewable energy is essential, and stands ready to support furthering it to alleviate the impact of the spiraling crisis on the vulnerable communities, all while advancing recovery efforts. The prolonged energy crisis has indeed brought about a major change in public awareness, and Japan hopes that this will be seen as an opportunity for the promotion of renewable energy across the country.”
Mr. Muhammad Usman Akram, UNOPS Director of Amman Multi-Country Office said: “With generous funding from the Government of Japan and partnering with the Ministry of Public Health, UNOPS has contributed to Lebanon’s critical health facilities and provided tangible benefits to the people by enhancing access to lifesaving healthcare services. I deeply appreciate the strong relationship between the Government of Japan and UNOPS at the global level and I am pleased to see it grow in Lebanon''.
The project contributed to strengthening the operational capacity of the health sector in Lebanon and enhancing the response to the COVID-19 pandemic through provision of critical equipment and access to renewable energy solutions at two governmental hospitals to ensure sustainable electricity supply and help reduce dependence on diesel generators. The project provided critical equipment for medical treatment and sterilization, furniture, and more than 33,000 medical supplies to 16 governmental hospitals across Lebanon.  In addition, the solar PV systems will help share the burden of the electricity bills and the fuel consumption amid the serious shortage of the electricity in the country, generating savings around 125,000 USD per year.
The project contributes to Sustainable Development Goal 3 - “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages”.

About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies.

For Press Inquiries, please contact:
Anwar Abu Sakieneh, Communications Specialist (UNOPS)
UNOPS Multi-country Office in Amman: +962 6 5902122 or  +962 7 9902 6315
AnwarAB@unops.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/181961-japan-and-unops-continue-their-support-health-sector-lebanon




Date: 11 May 2022
Title: Lebanon: UN expert warns of ‘failing State’ amid widespread poverty
Content: 11 May 2022

The report follows a country visit to Lebanon and an investigation into the root causes and impacts of the country’s worst economic and financial crisis in history.
“Impunity, corruption, and structural inequality have been baked into a venal political and economic system designed to fail those at the bottom, but it doesn’t have to be that way,” said De Schutter, an independent expert appointed by the UN Human Rights Council.
“The political establishment knew about the looming cataclysm for years but did little to avert it. Well-connected individuals even moved their money out of the country, facilitated by a legal vacuum that allowed capital to flow out of the country. Truth and accountability must be sought as a matter of human rights.”
With parliamentary elections on 15 May, the UN expert called on the next government to place accountability and transparency at the “heart and centre of its actions,” starting with publicly disclosing its own finances and conflicts of interest and demanding that Central Bank officials do the same.
Lebanon’s man-made economic crisis started in 2019, and today the country stands as “a failing State”, the UN expert said. He cited current estimates that put four in every five people in poverty.
“Political connections with the banking system are pervasive, pointing at serious concerns about conflicts of interest in their handling of the economy and people’s savings,” De Schutter said.
“There is no accountability built into the latest rescue plan, critical to restoring the lost confidence of the population and the financial sector. We’re talking about national wealth that belongs to the public in Lebanon and that was squandered over decades of mismanagement and misplaced investments by the Government and the Central Bank.
“Central Bank policies, in particular, led to a downward spiral of the currency, the devastation of the economy, the wiping out of people’s lifetime savings and to plunging the population into poverty. The conclusion of my report is that the Central Bank has brought the Lebanese State into clear contravention of international human rights law.
“Political leadership is completely out of touch with reality, including with the desperation they’ve created by destroying people’s lives. Lebanon is also one of the most unequal countries in the world, yet leadership seems unaware of this at best, and comfortable with it at worst.”
De Schutter said there was a serious lack of robust social protection mechanisms. “As it currently stands, it is a system that protects the rich while leaving poor families to fend for themselves,” he said. “Public services, including electricity, education, and healthcare, have been gutted, with a State that heavily subsidises private provisioning of these services. Over a quarter of all public education expenditures go to the private sector, which exacerbates inequality, does not lead to better education, and leads to higher dropouts among children from poor households.
“More than half of families report that their child has had to skip meals, and hundreds of thousands of children are out of school,” he added. “If the situation does not improve immediately, an entire generation of children will be sacrificed.”
The UN expert criticised decades of underinvestment in the public healthcare system and the Government’s “disgraceful” partial removal of subsidies on essential medicines. “Medicines remain in severe shortage and prices for chronic disease medication have increased at least fourfold, an all but guaranteed death sentence for those most in need,” the UN poverty expert said.
Despite the dearth of official poverty data – which the Government does not systematically collect, in part owing to the lack of census since 1932 – estimates suggest that multidimensional poverty nearly doubled between 2019 and 2021, affecting 82 percent of the population last year.
The UN report finds Palestinian and Syrian refugees face disastrous living conditions in Lebanon, with 88 percent living under minimum survival conditions. Almost half of Syrian families are food insecure. “The horrendous plight of refugees is a direct result of the administrative and legal measures imposed by the State, which continues to sideline and blame them for its own failure to provide basic goods and services to the population, whether education, decent jobs, safe drinking water or electricity,” he said.
“If trust for a better future is to be restored, the Government must strengthen the Central Inspection, free the National Anti-Corruption Commission from potential political interference, ensure independent oversight of Électricité du Liban, and ingrain accountability and transparency into the recovery plan.”
The UN expert called on the incoming government to commit to improving its human rights record in all spheres by reducing inequality, fighting corruption and impunity, building strong and resilient social protection, education, and healthcare systems, and placing the interests of the public above private profits.
ENDS
Photos from the Special Rapporteur’s visit to Lebanon are available for journalists’ use here.

Mr. Olivier De Schutter is the UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights since 1st May 2020. He was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council and is part of the Special Procedures, the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
For more information and media requests, please contact Patricia Varela (+41 22 928 9234/ patricia.varela@un.org) and Isabelle Delforge (+32/498522163 isabelle.delforge@srpoverty.org or media@srpoverty.org)
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Jeremy Laurence (+ 41 22 917 7578 / jeremy.laurence@un.org )
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.

Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/181570-lebanon-un-expert-warns-%E2%80%98failing-state%E2%80%99-amid-widespread-poverty




Date: 28 April 2022
Title: UN and Lebanese Government sign the United Nations Framework for Cooperation for Sustainable Development
Content: 28 April 2022
The framework aims to improve people’s lives and achieve a better future for Lebanon and its people, in addition to reaching a more comprehensive partnership between the United Nations and all concerned parties. It also constitutes a fundamental tool for planning and implementing UN development activities at the national level, in line with national development priorities and people's demands.
“Today is a very important day in which we renew years of continuous cooperation between the United Nations system in Lebanon and the Government of Lebanon, through a new Cooperation Framework that exemplifies the spirit of partnership that is at the core of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,” Rochdi said. She assured that reforms are the key to the successful implementation of the cooperation framework and lie at the core of the support intended within. Rochdi expressed hope that the reforms will be swiftly adopted in favor of the Lebanese people and contribute to accelerating the development process in the country.
“The importance of this framework lies in the fact that it was based on an inclusive participatory process that involved a series of extensive consultations with a wide range of national and international stakeholders, including civil society organizations, private sector, the Lebanese government, donors, and religious leaders”.
For his part, Mikati stressed that the UN emergency programs are important to address the primary challenges in Lebanon, calling for reflecting jointly on the long-term solutions presented in the Cooperation Framework to achieve sustainable development. “I see in this title [UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework] a positive message represented by the word “United Nations” which conveys peace, humanity, love, and cooperation for the well-being of the Lebanese citizen. We are in dire need for this cooperation today.”
Mikati stressed the importance of implementing the required reforms in full cooperation with the Parliament and all private and public governmental bodies, considering these reforms as an imminent demand by the Lebanese before it is an international one.
The implementation of the cooperation framework will kick off at the beginning of 2023 and will end in December 2025. Together with the UN, the Lebanese government will be responsible for leading the implementation of this framework, monitoring it, and preparing reports about its progress based on the four strategic development priorities that were identified in partnership with the government, civil society, the private sector, donors, and others. These priorities revolve around four main pillars, namely the People, the Planet (environment), Prosperity, and Peace. The priorities consist of the following:
The signing ceremony was attended by a number of ministers, ambassadors, heads of UN Agencies, Funds, Programmes, and Missions in Lebanon, in addition to some media professionals.
*****
About the UNSDCF:
The United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF), also referred to as the “Cooperation Framework” (CF), is the key UN strategic document to support the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development for the period 2023-2025. The CF ensures that UN entities conduct their activities towards common goals, identified jointly with the Government, development partners, and the people of Lebanon, in the most effective, efficient, and prioritized way. It serves as the core accountability mechanism between the UN and the Government of Lebanon, as well as between and among UN agencies and partners, to ensure collectively owned development results. The CF serves as the collective foundation for the UN Country Team’s (UNCT) programmatic work for the next three years.
*****
For media inquiries, please contact:
- Mr. Fares El-Gemayel, Media Advisor to the Lebanese Prime Minister, Mobile number: 03-452688
- Ms. Nadine Daou, National Information Officer, Office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator/United Nations Information Center in Beirut; E-mail: daou@un.org

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/179409-un-and-lebanese-government-sign-united-nations-framework-cooperation-sustainable-development




Date: 24 April 2022
Title: UNHCR, IOM: Shipwreck tragedy off the Lebanese coast underscores need for continuing support to Lebanon
Content: 24 April 2022
Forty-five people have been rescued, six others, including a 40-day-old baby, have been confirmed as deceased while many remain missing. The passengers included children, women, men, and a number of elderly people. The nationalities of the passengers have not yet been confirmed.
UNHCR and IOM are following up with the relevant authorities and are ready to support survivors and bereaved families. UNHCR and IOM will continue to work with the refugee, migrant and host communities to warn people of the dangers and risks of irregular onward movements.
“This tragic event underscores the shockingly high risks that many people are resorting to out of desperation. Shipwrecks, tragic deaths and further suffering could be avoided, but it is crucial that continuous support is mobilized to help Lebanon as living conditions worsen for refugees and Lebanese alike,” said Ayaki Ito, UNHCR Representative.
“Lebanon’s economic crisis has triggered one of the largest waves of migration in the country’s history,” said Mathieu Luciano, Head of IOM Lebanon. “Driven by increasingly desperate economic circumstances, a growing number of people are leaving Lebanon through unsafe means. Safe and legal alternatives to irregular migration are urgently needed, including support to local livelihoods and improved access to services in communities at risk.”
Lebanon has been witnessing an increase in sea departures since 2020 when 38 boats with over 1,500 passengers attempted dangerous onward journeys, over 75 per cent of which were intercepted or returned. In addition to the yesterday’s incident, so far this year, at least three boats departed Lebanon, carrying 64 passengers. Two were intercepted before departing Lebanese waters.
UNHCR and IOM advocate for the safe disembarkation of people in distress at sea and respect for the principle of non-refoulement. Individuals rescued at sea or sent back to Lebanon are provided with medical and psychosocial support and emergency assistance.
UNHCR and IOM also call for continuous solidarity from the international community to ease conditions for the host community as well as refugees and migrants hosted in Lebanon.
Media contacts:
UNHCR
In Lebanon, Paula Barrachina, +96181312087, barrachi@unhcr.org
In Lebanon, Dalal Harb, +96170113107, harb@unhcr.org
IOM
In Lebanon, Tala Al-Khatib, +96176042080, talkhatib@iom.int
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/179170-unhcr-iom-shipwreck-tragedy-lebanese-coast-underscores-need-continuing-support-lebanon




Date: 20 April 2022
Title: Lebanon’s crisis is threatening children’s health – UNICEF
Content: 20 April 2022
“With Lebanon’s health system being stretched to breaking point by so many crises, impoverished families can no longer afford to even access basic health care for their children – as many dedicated health workers struggle to keep operations running during the crisis” - Ettie Higgins, UNICEF Representative a.i.
BEIRUT, 20 April 2022 ­ – The ripple effects of the global economic situation – with heightened prices and increased inflation – are exacerbating Lebanon’s calamitous crisis, with grave consequences for children’s health, UNICEF said in a report released to coincide with World Immunization Week (WIW).
This will cause more disruptions in the health sector, already beset by a major exodus of medical professionals, a hiring freeze by health facilities and limitations on imports of medications and equipment that have seriously affected the quality of healthcare for women and children.
The report, ‘A worsening health crisis for children’, points out the critical drop in vaccination rates has left children vulnerable to potentially deadly diseases such as measles, diphtheria and pneumonia. Routine vaccination of children has dropped by 31 per cent when rates already were worryingly low, creating a large pool of unprotected children vulnerable to disease and its impact.
Keeping the cold chain for vaccines running is critical and the rising fuel prices pose new threats to essential services, such as vaccine delivery, despite efforts to rapidly increase the use of solar power.
“With 80 per cent of the population living in poverty, many families cannot even afford the cost of transportation to take their children to a health care centre, and many no longer able to provide the food and nutrition their children need to survive and thrive” - Ettie Higgins, UNICEF Representative a.i.
Lebanon’s National Nutrition Survey 2021 shows that the key nutritional indicators for young children are poor from the very beginning of life and worsen over time. More than 90 per cent per cent of children do not meet the standards for minimum meal frequency, dietary diversity or acceptable diet during the crucial period for growth and development up to age 2.
Support is critically needed to prevent a further deterioration of the health and nutrition situation and protect the most vulnerable women and children as Lebanon reels from an economic meltdown, COVID-19, the aftermath of the 2020 Beirut Port explosions, and now, the global economic situation.
“With the compound crisis showing no sign of abating, concerted action is critical to prioritize children’s health. Lebanon cannot afford children to be in poor health and nutritionally deprived”, said Ettie Higgins. “UNICEF reinforces its call to the Lebanese government and all stakeholders to scale up efforts to vaccinate all children against vaccine preventable diseases, and to improve the nutritional well-being of children and women.
You can find the report here.
Note to editors
World Immunization Week (WIW) is marked every year in the last week of April to promote the use of vaccines.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/178837-lebanon%E2%80%99s-crisis-threatening-children%E2%80%99s-health-%E2%80%93-unicef




Date: 12 April 2022
Title: Lebanese professional athletes launch #TheUrbanAthletePodcast, in collaboration with UNIC Beirut
Content: 12 April 2022

In its 12 episodes, the podcast focuses on the role of physical activity and sports in improving mental health. It also tackles how the practice of physical activity is a fundamental right for all and how it contributes to education, human development, and healthy lifestyles.
The podcast aims at raising awareness about the connection between sports and education, health, human rights and women empowerment. It also aims at influencing behaviors and galvanizing action within sports, as well as inspiring people to consider sports as a valuable tool to overcome any obstacle or crisis.
The host, (2019 Wushu World Champion Michel Zammar) and co-host (his coach Ryan Merheb), discuss with high-level Lebanese and Arab athletes the challenges they faced throughout the years, their athletic accomplishments, and give recommendations to young athletes and sports lovers and fans.
The first episode features Fitness and Health Coach Joanna Salameh with whom they highlight the benefits of sports for mental health.
In this context, Salameh invited everyone to watch the show, stressing that “wellness is a journey made up of daily conscious healthy practices and a balanced mindset,” saying she will be giving tips that will help everyone -including the youth and elderly- build a healthy lifestyle.
“Being sportsmen ourselves, we are aware of the struggles that the Lebanese and Arab athletes are facing while chasing their dreams, so we would like to help them by providing a platform to spread awareness, educate, and share knowledge and experience in the field of sports,” the host said.
In her turn, UNIC Beirut Director Margo Helou highlighted the importance of sports and how it has played an important role in all societies and acted as a strong communication platform that can be used to promote a culture of peace and encourage social inclusion.
Helou invited more women and girls to participate in sports as athletes and not as spectators only: “Physical activity can also help foster gender equality and promote equal participation of girls and women in sports.”
The Podcast can be watched on Railway Station Web TV (http://www.railwaystation.live/) and on UNIC Beirut’s Youtube Channel (www.youtube.com/UNICBeirut1)

For more information and arranging interviews, please contact:
Ryan Merheb, 70-916292, ryan.a.merheb@gmail.com
Hala Al Feghali, 70-118990, hala.alfeghali@un.org


* *** *
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/177503-lebanese-professional-athletes-launch-theurbanathletepodcast-collaboration-unic-beirut




Date: 11 April 2022
Title: “Plan Zero” to set the foundation for a more environmentally sustainable region : UN-Habitat joins forces with the private sector to reduce plastic and glass waste in the MENA region
Content: 11 April 2022

As it draws a clear roadmap for this collaboration, the project spans across Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates. This project, which is technically led by Development Inc., aims to curve the linear economy mindset into a circular one, in which glass and plastic are recycled and reused, and where the value of used glass and plastics is monetized to support the local economy and incentivize recycling among consumers.
‘’Plan Zero’’ will work on reducing the carbon footprint in the project’s targeted countries by diverting packaging waste from landfills, water bodies and the environment, through retrieving most of the producers’ recyclable and non-recyclable plastic, fiber, glass and metal packaging materials. That in turn supports the achievement of a stronger environmental, cost effective, operational and public impact. This initiative will not only keep cities cleaner, but create job opportunities, and enhance public spaces through the installation of various recycled public furniture.
In 2016, the MENA region generated 129 million tons of waste of which only 9% are being recycled and the vast majority disposed of in open fields and dumpsites. The region is expected to double its waste generation by 2050. Glass and plastic waste comprise almost 15 percent of the total waste generated in the region.[1]
Commenting on this milestone, Maimunah Mohd Sharif, Executive Director of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme said: "The private sector has taken the lead in providing innovative solutions for the sustainable and just development of societies. UN-Habitat would like to capitalize and complement such leadership, through its programmes and engagement platforms, to further promote and foster existing strong collaboration between the business community and local level actors to enhance the impact of global commitments and development agendas. Namely, the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and its 17 goals, and UN-Habitat’s own global commitments, as evidenced through our Strategic Plan 2020-2023."
"The MENA region is witnessing unprecedented rates of population growth and urbanization. Cities across the region are increasingly faced with the need to establish sustainable systems to manage their growing waste and ensure the health and well-being of their communities while keeping their urban spaces clean. UN-Habitat is committed to take transformational measures towards creating a circular economy and raising awareness on the socio-economic and environmental benefits of reducing, reusing and recycling plastic waste. Our collaboration with the private sector is a major step towards achieving our goal of improving the urban environment and promoting a recycling culture in the MENA region," said Dr. Erfan Ali, Un-Habitat Regional Representative For Arab States.
In a recent market analysis report published by the Grand View Research Center in December 2021, plastic and glass are two of the world’s most used materials. While the first accounts for a yearly global production of 220 million tons, the glass manufacturing market size was valued at USD 120.3 billion in 2020 and is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 3.7% from 2021 to 2028. The problem with plastic or glass lies not in their uses, as they suit a broad spectrum of production lines, but in managing the end-of-life of the products they are made of. They end up either in landfills or dumped in nature. In fact, 95% of the waste found in the open sea, and on the Mediterranean coast and beaches is composed of plastics. In other terms, we are still witnessing a linear ‘take, make, waste’ economy; yet such today presents a key environmental challenge globally, and more particularly in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, where plastic and glass use is on the increase.
Moving forward, the ‘’Plan Zero’’ actors will actively work with their communities and stakeholders including suppliers and partners, to promote a culture of environmental sustainability through tangible interventions that feature a circular economy model. With the overarching goal of evolving the way the MENA region produces and consumes goods and services in the sectors of construction, food and beverage.

- END -

About UN-Habitat:
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
www.unhabitat.org
For more information, please contact:
Elie Mansour
Head of the Urban Planning Department, UN-Habitat Lebanon
Email: elie.mansour@un.org
Yasmine Mostafa
Knowledge Management and Reporting Officer
UN-Habitat Regional Office for Arab States
Email: yasmine.mostafa@un.org


[1] Source: World Bank, 2018, What a Waste 2.0: A Global Snapshot of Solid Waste Management to 2050
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/177346-%E2%80%9Cplan-zero%E2%80%9D-set-foundation-more-environmentally-sustainable-region-un-habitat-joins-forces




Date: 05 April 2022
Title: UN Fuel Support Reaches Its End, While Needs Keep Growing : Statement by the office of the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Mrs. Najat Rochdi
Content: 05 April 2022

“The UN through WFP, in coordination with UNICEF, WHO, OCHA and NGOs, has been able to manage one of the largest fuel service provision operations in the world. This operation would not have been possible without the generous support of donors. I am extremely proud of the achievements made with this exceptional project and the strong collaboration witnessed despite the main challenges involved.”, declares Dr. Rochdi.
Since September 2021 to 31 March 2022, WFP has delivered more than 10.4 million litres of fuel to 350 water facilities and 272 Health facilities across the country to fill critical fuel shortages and avoid critical life-saving services from collapsing. OCHA-managed Lebanon Humanitarian Fund (LHF) and the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) provided US$ 8.5 million to timely and swiftly kick-start this one-off support at a time of need.
This emergency fuel operation was to mitigate additional suffering caused by the severe electricity and fuel shortages which have been affecting Lebanon since August 2021, impeding the provision of essential services, including health care and water.
The Humanitarian Coordinator expresses her concerns about the continued impact of the energy crisis on basic services and people’s well-being. “I am appealing to the Lebanese government to find a sustainable solution to this issue, as the most vulnerable people, need some form of assistance and protection” stressed Dr. Rochdi.
Launched in August 2021, the Emergency Response Plan has been only funded at 25 per cent. Urgent support is needed to sustain operations and scale-up critical humanitarian activities, in line with Lebanon Crisis Response Plan humanitarian interventions and UNRWA programs.
For More Information, please contact;
- Ms. Rosaria Bruno
Head of Office - United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Lebanon.
Email: bruno1@un.org
- Ms. Naiera Ellethy
Public Information Officer- United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Lebanon. Email: naiera.ahmed@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/176861-un-fuel-support-reaches-its-end-while-needs-keep-growing-statement-office-un-resident-and




Date: 04 April 2022
Title: Fourth Consultative Group Meeting  on the Reform, Recovery, and Reconstruction Framework
Content: 04 April 2022

The 3RF Consultative Group consists of the Government of Lebanon, Lebanese civil society, the European Union, United Nations, the World Bank, and international donors. Together they monitor progress and give strategic direction to the reforms and activities under the 3RF.
The 3RF Consultative Group members took stock of the progress made to date under the 3RF supported programs and reiterated its call to address the protracted crisis. Discussions focused on three strategic issues, namely economic stabilization and recovery, social protection, and justice and accountability. Below are the co-chairs’ statement of the fourth 3RF Consultative Group meeting and the list of attendees.
The 3RF report and the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on the 3RF can be found here.
***************
The participants’ list is attached to this summary. Also, you can find here the presentation made by the 3RF Secretariat, a tracker of action points agreed at previous CG meetings, and a monitoring framework of all 3RF commitments.
State Institutions of Lebanon
H.E. Najib Mikati, Prime Minister
H.E. Saade Chami, Deputy Prime Minister
H.E. Amin Salam, Minister of Economy and Trade
H.E. Hector Hajjar, Minister of Social Affairs
Ms Rubina Abou Zeinab, National Coordinator for the 3RF CMU
Mr Mohammed Itani, Economic Expert at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers
United Nations
Ms Najat Rochdi, Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator
World Bank
Mr Saroj Kumar Jha, Regional Director
Donors
H.E. Ralph Tarraf, Ambassador of the European Union
H.E. Andreas Kindl, Ambassador of Germany
H.E. Ann Dismorr, Ambassador of Sweden
H.E. Anne Grillo, Ambassador of France
H.E. Chantal Chastenay, Ambassador of Canada
H.E. Dorothy Shea, Ambassador of the United States of America
H.E. Hans Peter van der Woude, Ambassador of the Netherlands
H.E. Ian Collard, Ambassador of the United Kingdom
H.E. Marion Weichelt, Ambassador of Switzerland
H.E. Merete Juhl, Ambassador of Denmark
H.E. Nicoletta Bombardiere, Ambassador of Italy
H.E. Pierre Duquesne of France, Special Coordinator for International Aid to Lebanon
Mr Damien Sorrell, Representative for Lebanon of the European Investment Bank
Mr Khalil Dinguizli, Head of Lebanon for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Mr Kiyoshi Mihara, Deputy Ambassador of Japan
Mr Svenn Wroldsen, Chargé d’Affaires of Norway
Mr Victor Hugo Portillo Angulo, Deputy Head of Mission of Spain
Lebanese Civil Society
Ms Asma Zein of the Lebanese League for Women in Business
Ms Alia Farhat of Al-Majmoua
Ms Carine Tohme of ALDIC
Mr Danny Aboud of the Lebanese Industrialists Association
Mr Eddy Bitar of Live Love
Ms Ella Bitar of the Society of St Vincent DePaul
Mr Nadim Abdo of Arcenciel
Ms Fadlo Dagher of BHI
3RF Independent Oversight Body (observers)
Mr Julien Courson of the Lebanese of Transparency International
Ms Reem Al-Dana of Kulluna Irada
Ms Roula Mikhael of Maharat
Ms Grace Eid of Nusaned
3RF Technical Team and Secretariat
Mr Christian de Clercq, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office
Mr Rein Nieland, EU Delegation Head of Cooperation
Ms Mouna Couzi, Lebanon Operations Manager and LFF Manager
Ms Judit Demjén of the 3RF Secretariat
Mr Khalil Gebara of the 3RF Secretariat
Mr Jaap van Diggele of the 3RF Secretariat

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/176775-fourth-consultative-group-meeting-reform-recovery-and-reconstruction-framework




Date: 02 April 2022
Title: The UN is making every effort with international partners, to support the education sector in Lebanon and ensure continuity of education for all children
Content: 02 April 2022
With the vital support of international partners, UN agencies in Lebanon have been providing significant support to the entire Education sector. We are aware of the difficult situation that teachers are facing and are supporting the Ministry of Education and Higher Education to improve the conditions in schools for both teachers and children. We acknowledge the dedication and commitment of teachers to their students. The economic situation and the financial external environment are extremely challenging, and along with UNICEF, we have been advocating for the best interest of the teachers and the children.
Every day, UN agencies are working closely with the Ministry of Education and Higher education and partners to ensure that the contracted teachers’ entitlements are fully paid; However, we are still waiting for the documents and data to be provided to UNICEF from the Ministry in order to pay the second shift teachers for hours completed so far in School Year 21/22. As such, UN agencies and International Community do not have any responsibility in the delay.
It is critically important that the education of children is not jeopardized, and that we keep schools open.
Together with UNICEF and through generous funding from the European Union and Germany, we are supporting the enrolment of 336,000 Lebanese and approximately 198,000 Non-Lebanese children in the formal public school system. During the 21/22 scholastic year and to support the safe school reopening, UNICEF together with donor partners has provided School Fund top-ups for every school, health and hygiene supplies, fuel, books and stationery benefitting all children in public formal education, no matter who they are, or what their nationality.
The concerned UN agencies and the international community are committed to providing the support, so that every vulnerable child living in Lebanon has access to quality education”.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/176652-un-making-every-effort-international-partners-support-education-sector-lebanon-and-ensure




Date: 01 April 2022
Title: Statement of the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon Mrs. Najat Rochdi on the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) by the Lebanese Parliament
Content: 01 April 2022
Lebanon showed its commitment to the human rights of persons with disabilities by signing the Convention in 2007. Lebanon now needs to take the next step of ratification to join the current 185 States parties to the Convention and fully commit to promote, protect, and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights by persons with disabilities.
I encourage Lebanon also to join the 100 UN Member States that have ratified the Optional Protocol to the CRPD allowing the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to receive individual communications concerning violations of the Convention.
The articles of the CRPD cover the full spectrum of human rights and set out principles that should guide legislative, administrative and other measures to address barriers to persons with disabilities’ effective participation and inclusion in society, including their ability to live independently in the community, to vote, to access justice, to participate in sport and cultural activities and to access their physical environment, transportation, and information.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/176653-statement-united-nations-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-lebanon-mrs-najat-rochdi




Date: 01 April 2022
Title: First National Urban Forum of Lebanon wraps up with tangible recommendations on Lebanese cities, transport, housing and energy
Content: 01 April 2022

The Forum also concluded with targeted recommendations within the transport, housing and energy sectors – as key entry points to place good urbanization as an opportunity for the future prosperity of the country.
A ground-breaking report on the state of urbanization in Lebanon was launched – the UN-Habitat-ESCWA State of the Lebanese Cities Report – which analyses ten cities across 19 themes, identifying entry points for moving towards a more sustainable urban realm. It shows that urban growth in recent decades has for some cities been explosive – and mainly unplanned. The ten cities together grew in this way by a total area equivalent to four times the size of Tripoli over the last three decades.
Through technical sessions with key experts and stakeholders’ representatives, the Forum launched three reports on housing and transport, as part of UN-Habitat’s National Urban Policy (NUP) programme. The reports offer critical policy recommendations for reforming the transport and housing sectors and responding to immediate needs and long-term goals.
The technical session on transport notably concluded on the opportunities that can emerge from the current crisis to enable a faster shift to alternative transport means, with policy reforms at the national level being inevitable to ensure equitable mobility for all residents.
The technical session on housing concluded on the importance of policy reforms for the recovery of the housing market and for increasing the supply of affordable housing, yet a bottom-up approach through pilot projects can spearhead best practices and pave the way for reforms to follow.
The technical session on energy inferred that appropriate investment in decentralized sustainable technologies – at both city and household levels – as well as awareness-raising on the set and required legal frameworks is crucial to trigger immediate and long-term energy needs. It also demonstrated that the current multi-stakeholder (namely public, private and academic institutions) approach, merits efforts to streamline conversations towards sustainable renewable energy solutions for Lebanon.
The UN-Habitat published reports are:
This guide proposes a set of policy orientations, recommendations and priorities to transition the transport sector in Lebanon to a sustainable future by helping to improve the state of mobility and the provision of transport services across the country. It is structured under the commonly adopted Enable-Avoid-Shift-Improve policy formulation framework for sustainable transport and mobility.
After providing an analysis of Lebanon’s housing sector, the guide identifies three major housing policy priorities: 1) Tighten the regulation and organization of land and real estate markets; 2) Diversify the channels of housing finance and delivery; and 3) Regenerate the existing formal and informal housing stock. It also provides an action plan that converts them to actionable programmes, instruments and interventions. It proposes 21 recommendations with short-term initiatives while also laying the groundwork for longer-term policy goals.
The objective of this synthesis report is to provide insights into Lebanon’s NUP programme by exploring the interlinkages of the two sectors identified as a priority (housing and transport), based on a general analysis of their nexus in urban planning and development. The report also briefly discusses the additional considerations brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic on these two sectors in Lebanon, as one example of a crisis that has policy implications.
The Forum also featured an Urban Fair, where exhibitors showcased best practices and future interventions mainly related to housing, transport and renewable energy. The Fair promoted these practices and solutions to exchange experiences, share knowledge, and demonstrate opportunities.
Exhibitors included:
As a key outcome of the event, a Declaration was read-out, capturing a series of action-oriented commitments and suggestions made during the Forum. These commitments are to Lebanon, its citizens, and its residents, concretizing the centrality of good urbanization and planning, for the future well-being of all those living in Lebanon.
-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States, and works on enhancing regional integration.
For media enquiries:
UN-Habitat Lebanon
Ms. Layal Abou Antoun
M: +961 81 512629 E: layal.abouantoun@un.org
ESCWA:
- Ms. Maryam Sleiman, Public Information Assistant, +961-81-769888; sleiman2@un.org
- Ms. Rania Harb, Public Information Assistant, +961-70-008879; harb1@un.org

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/176746-first-national-urban-forum-lebanon-wraps-tangible-recommendations-lebanese-cities-transport




Date: 28 March 2022
Title: UNIDO and UNDP launch the “Lebanon Export Academy” in support of  MSMEs in the agri-food and agriculture sector
Content: 28 March 2022

The academy equips women and men-led MSMEs and Cooperatives in Lebanon with the required know-how and practical export skills to scale up their operations and foster their readiness to export. As an initial phase, the academy will provide training to 70 MSMEs and Cooperatives, of which 40 are women-led businesses.
Companies will have access to flexible learning schemes adapted to their needs and schedules. Multiple choices are offered from in-person and online classes to self-paced courses, covering export-related topics including export plan write-up, market research, export documentation, and export prices (from identifying export costs to setting a competitive price to sell products), among other topics.
Lebanon is undergoing an unprecedented economic and financial crisis classified by the World Bank as “one of the worst the world has seen in the past 150 years”. This breakdown aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic, has incurred heavy damages on the business ecosystem and the labor market in Lebanon. Since October 2019, 79% of firms reduced their sales by 69% and small firms bore a bigger impact as demands for products and services drop (World Bank).
This economic breakdown has called for urgent actions to help local businesses become ready to export and access new markets, particularly women and men-led MSMEs operating in the productive sectors. However, there are opportunities arising in the Agriculture and Agri-food sectors as major contributors to economic opportunities and job creation for women and youth in underprivileged areas. In this context, MSMEs need to acquire the specific know-hows and tools to maintain their businesses and reach sustainable growth.
In order to address these challenges, UNIDO in partnership with UNDP and Berytech has launched the “Lebanon Export Academy”, as part of its Productive Sectors Development Program (PSDP), a UN-joint initiative funded through the generous contribution of the Government of Canada to revive the agriculture and agri-food sectors in Lebanon.
As the academy launches its first training, we encourage MSMEs and women-led MSMEs in the agriculture and agri-food sectors to join the program. Whether you are an established exporter or just starting your export strategy, apply now to create new opportunities, reach international markets, and reinforce the country’s economy.
The selection criteria include being a registered MSME with at least three employees, working on a specific value-chain identified as having potential for growth and export, and having two senior representatives from each company dedicated to the program, including at least one woman.
Women-led businesses are highly encouraged to apply and join the academy as they represent the engines for Lebanon’s economic recovery.
To learn more about the program and to apply, visit:  https://berytech.org/programs/lebanon-export-academy/

For further information, please contact:
Ms. Nivine CHAHNI, Project Coordinator,
UNIDO Office for Jordan, Lebanon and Syria
Telephone: +961-70-969170
Email: n.chahni@unido.org

*******
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/175991-unido-and-undp-launch-%E2%80%9Clebanon-export-academy%E2%80%9D-support-msmes-agri-food-and-agriculture




Date: 24 March 2022
Title: UN Launches Online Survey Targeting Agri-Food Sector in Lebanon
Content: 24 March 2022
The survey aims to select beneficiaries in the PSDP’s activities, which will include technology transfer and technical skills training in the agricultural and agri-food sectors, training on environmental sustainability, and in-kind support, with a specific focus on female youth skills’ upgrade, and innovations promotion.
Filling out the survey does not guarantee that participants will be selected for support. The answers will be collected and evaluated based on specific selection criteria as mentioned in the following link; an automated formula will generate scores and the selection will be based on the said scores. Only selected beneficiaries will be contacted to take part in the program’s activities.
The deadline for participating in the survey is April 24nd, 2022: https://nivine.surveycto.com/collect/PSDP_farmers
ABOUT PSDP
The PSDP is jointly implemented by the UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the UN Development Program (UNDP), International Labor Organization (ILO), UN Women, and the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF). The program aims to support gender-responsive job creation and help create economic opportunities in the agricultural and agri-food sectors in Lebanon.
The PSDP targets all stages within the value chain of fruits, vegetables, nuts, and pulses from farm to fork, mainly in the North and Akkar governorates. Individual Youth, women and men farmers, entrepreneurs, women, and men workers in the selected MSMEs and cooperatives will be provided with training on women empowerment principles, business development, and apprenticeships.
For more information about the PSDP, visit: https://lebanon.un.org/144681-about-productive-sector-development-programme
Or contact:
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/175677-un-launches-online-survey-targeting-agri-food-sector-lebanon




Date: 23 March 2022
Title: First National Urban Forum of Lebanon kicks-off: UN-Habitat and ESCWA launch the State of Lebanese Cities report
Content: 23 March 2022

The Forum, “Towards a more sustainable and inclusive future for Lebanese cities”, was opened by the Minister of Environment, Mr. Nasser Yassine, in the presence of the United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Ms. Najat Rochdi; the UN-Habitat Regional Representative, Mr. Erfan Ali; the Leader of the Gender Justice, Population and Inclusive Development Cluster at ESCWA, Ms. Mehrinaz El Awady, representing the ESCWA Executive Secretary, and the UN-Habitat Head of Country Programme, Ms. Taina Christiansen.
“Cities are always regarded as the centre for establishing civilizations, nurturing innovation and fostering diversity – Beirut, the one we are living in, is no exception,” said H.E. Nasser Yassin, Minister of Environment representing H.E Najib Mikati, Lebanese Prime Minister, quoting poet Mahmoud Darwish. “Beirut has witnessed a golden era of cultural, political and intellectual diversity and development. Yet it has always struggled to overcome any kind of oppression, I see it today sad and dampened, a fact that we all need to be aware of and join hands to restore life into its streets and neighbourhoods,” he continued.
“The clock is ticking. It is time to seek sustainable urbanization as a top priority. We owe it to present and future generations. We owe it to our Planet,” El Awady warned. “It is not too late to reverse the effects of unsustainable urbanization. Let us begin with providing reliable urban data and enhancing multi-stakeholder dialogue and cooperation,” she added.
In her remarks, United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator for Lebanon, United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon Rochdi said: ‘’ As the UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohamed said, it is in cities where the battle for sustainability will be won or lost. The same can be said for Lebanon. As the UN family continues to support the country in advancing the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development, improving housing, infrastructure, transportation, and basic urban services in Lebanese cities becomes a major priority. We need all-hands-on-deck to ensure inclusive, safe, and sustainable cities in Lebanon and lay the foundation for its sustainable recovery.’’
‘’The National Urban Forum of Lebanon is being held at a time when Lebanon is going through its most severe socioeconomic crisis in recent decades, along with other compounded crises. UN-Habitat Lebanon, along with other UN agencies and governmental and non-governmental stakeholders, have been working together to help the country navigate through these challenging times and respond to these crises. Noting the country’s high degree of urbanization, addressing these crises and planning for a sustainable future from an urban lens is imperative,’’ said Ali.
“Hosting the first National Urban Forum of Lebanon, is a key milestone for UN-Habitat. As Lebanon is one the most urbanized countries in the region, re-initiating the discussion among key experts on urban challenges and solutions, for the better future of cities is the first step towards the country’s recovery. We are glad to see the high level of engagement and interest in our NUF1 as it is a clear testament of the commitment the people of Lebanon have to help the nation recover and become better than it was,” said Christiansen.
The two-day Forum – aimed at raising awareness and catalysing important discussions around cities in Lebanon where almost 90% of residents live in urban settings – seeks to place cities at the centre of the future development discourse of the country.  The NUF1 will introduce through a series of panel discussions, four reports revealing focused data and insights with a particular focus on the overall status of urbanization in Lebanon, energy, housing and transport. Thematic session panellists will shed light on the importance of why an urban lens is indispensable to contribute to finding solutions out of the current complexities, and in fostering a sustainable and prosperous Lebanon.
The State of the Lebanese cities report, co-developed by UN-Habitat and ESCWA, analyses ten cities across 19 themes, identifying entry points for moving towards a more sustainable urban realm. It shows that urban growth in recent decades has for some cities been explosive – and mainly unplanned. The ten cities together grew in this way by a total area equivalent to four times the size of Tripoli over the last three decades.
Key recommendations are for urban municipalities to set up multistakeholder ‘city partnerships’ to collaborate on urban development at the whole-of-city scale; and for the existing national physical framework decreed in 2009 to be reanimated.
With many of Lebanon’s longstanding and more recent challenges concentrated in cities where most people live, the report shows how urban planning can help link humanitarian and development goals, providing concrete recommendations for a future sustainable, inclusive and holistic urban Lebanon.
-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
About ESCWA
One of five United Nations regional commissions, ESCWA supports inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab States, and works on enhancing regional integration.

For media enquiries:
Ms. Layal Abou Antoun
UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
M: +961 81 512629
E: layal.abouantoun@un.org
ESCWA:
- Ms. Maryam Sleiman, Public Information Assistant, +961-81-769888; sleiman2@un.org
- Ms. Rania Harb, Public Information Assistant, +961-70-008879; harb1@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/175682-first-national-urban-forum-lebanon-kicks-un-habitat-and-escwa-launch-state-lebanese-cities




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: The United Nations, Member States in Lebanon and civil society organisations come together to celebrate women leading the fight against environmental degradation and climate change in Lebanon
Content: 08 March 2022
To recognize International Women’s Day, the United Nations System in Lebanon, coordinated by UN Women, and in collaboration with the Lebanon Gender Working Group (GWG) and with the support from UN Members States come together around a joint campaign “Women and girls leading the fight against climate change to build a more sustainable future for Lebanon”. The campaign builds on the global  theme, “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow” that is aligned with the priority theme for the upcoming 66th Commission on the Status of Women (CSW66, 14-25 March 2022) on “achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls in the context of climate change, environmental disaster risk reduction policies, and programmes”.
Climate change is a threat multiplier in Lebanon. Over the past decades, an inability to find sustainable solutions for key environmental threats, including those related to waste management and sustainable energy, has produced serious public health impacts. Contamination and depletion of the groundwater have reached catastrophic levels, and air pollution is estimated to have increased by 50% between 2017 and 2020 in Lebanon.
By profiling a group of women living and working in Lebanon to combat the far-reaching impacts of climate change, including its health, economic and social effects on the country, the UN and partners are celebrating the achievements of women in the country, while highlighting the urgent need for action on matters related to climate change and environmental degradation. The group of nine women being profiled: Nadida Raad, Caroline Chabtini, Dr Maya Nehmeh, Aaida Ghadban, Dr Myriam Ghsoub, Carole Ayat, Dr Mona Fawaz, Nouhad Awwad and Dr Najat Saliba, are leading innovative actions for climate adaptation across the country. In trying to mitigate the effects of this environmental challenge, these women are working to build a future of equality, rights, and opportunities for all.
“The nine women profiled in this year’s campaign provide solid and tangible proof of women’s leadership in all aspects of life. We need women in politics, in the economy, and in the environment to ensure Lebanon’s swift and smooth recovery. These women inspire us and remind us that change is possible, that solutions are possible, and that knowledge can serve our common goal to avoid the country’s ecological collapse,” said the United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Najat Rochdi. “Climate change in Lebanon poses a threat multiplier to Lebanon’s stiff challenges that will intensify the current predicaments. This requires resolute action and serious engagement by all of us, including the government and the people, to fight environmental degradation and climate change in Lebanon, she added.
The campaign includes a photographic virtual exhibition showcasing women champions leading on climate change initiatives across Lebanon. The photographic virtual exhibition will run online and will be included, as a permanent feature, on UN Lebanon and UN Women Lebanon’s website. The exhibition will be complemented by an online launching event, hosted today. In parallel, a social media campaign will run, from 8 to 15 March on the social platforms of the UN agencies in Lebanon
“We need all hands-on deck to fight climate change and environmental degradation. I am inspired to see the leadership and innovation of women in Lebanon in promoting solutions for a more sustainable tomorrow. Lebanon truly needs to unlock the potential of all its talented women and girls!” said Merete Juhl, Ambassador of Denmark.
“For me the extraordinary women profiled in the campaign, underlines the necessity to connect the dots between a sustainable future, gender equality, social inclusion and quality education. We will be unable to reach a sustainable future if we continue to exclude the potential of half of the population while searching for solutions. This is even more important considering the unfolding education crisis in Lebanon, which hampers yet another generation of girls from fulfilling their full potential”, said. Ambassador of Finland Tarja Fernández.
Ryme Assaad, President of Sustain the World, a Lebanese organization working on climate justice and a member of the Lebanon Gender Working Group. She says, on behalf of the GWG “Despite restricted rights, limited access to political decision-making, financial resources and employment opportunities, women and girls in Lebanon are proving to be leaders of change, driving and inspiring the change they want to see in their communities.
The first National Woman’s Day was observed in the United States on February 28, 1909. In 1975, during International Women’s Year, the United Nations began celebrating International Women’s Day on March 8, which is now celebrated in many countries worldwide. It is a day when women are recognized for their achievements regardless of divisions, be those national, ethnic, linguistic, cultural, economic, or political.
__________________________________________
About the United Nations
The United Nations system in Lebanon comprises 23 agencies, funds and programmes, a peacekeeping mission, a political mission, and a regional commission covering a broad spectrum of peacekeeping, political, development, human rights, and humanitarian work in Lebanon. The United Nations supports Lebanon to promote the country’s long-term peace and security, development, and human rights priorities.
About the Gender Working Group (GWG) in Lebanon
Chaired by UN Women, the Gender Working Group is a strategic forum and advocacy platform to promote gender equality and the integration of gender considerations in humanitarian-development-peace (HDP) actions of the United Nations and their partners in Lebanon. The GWG regularly convenes both international and national actors from across sectors to facilitate action on gender equality and women’s rights. The Gender Working Group is made up of 42 members (UN agencies: 19, INGOs: 6, and NGOs: 17); 15 member states collaborate with the group in an observatory status capacity. This group is complementary to the Gender Donor Working Group, chaired by the Government of Canada in Lebanon.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/174079-united-nations-member-states-lebanon-and-civil-society-organisations-come-together-celebrate




Date: 07 March 2022
Title: UN-Habitat and CatalyticAction rehabilitate streets and sidewalks in Karantina – making key health facilities more accessible
Content: 07 March 2022

This initiative, funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) and Fondation de France, focused on making Karantina’s streets more pedestrian and family friendly by slowing traffic, improving existing sidewalks, and making the area greener. This was done by creating pedestrian crossings, building access ramps, a new roundabout, speed bumps, road markings and planting trees. A new sidewalk was implemented that features a long concrete bench for people to gather where cars once parked. The design interventions for this project were guided by a participatory approach ensuring input from the local community around their needs, visions, and aspirations for the space.
“Beirut was previously known for its public spaces, but with rapid unplanned urbanization, these spaces have decreased. We must all work to create new public spaces and revive existing ones, as they are the beating heart of the city and provide people a space to relax and interact with their neighbours. These interventions are crucial. We should all join efforts to improve the quality and increase the number of public spaces in the city, and support the local community to protect them,” said, Judge Marwan Abboud, Governor of Beirut.
“Applying Build Back Better approaches in Beirut following the tragic 4 August 2020 explosions, is one of Sweden’s priorities. I am happy to see this intervention that has indeed improved accessibility to two key health facilities in Karantina, one of which UN-Habitat rehabilitated with our support. This is a good example of how sidewalks and streets should be designed across Beirut,” said Christoffer Burnett-Cargill, Counsellor, Head of Development Cooperation, Embassy of Sweden in Beirut.
This initiative is part of UN-Habitat’s wider Sida-funded project that supported the only National HIV and Tuberculosis (TB) Centre in Lebanon restart its operations after it was severely damaged by the Beirut Port explosion. UN-Habitat rehabilitated the Centre inside and out ensuring it regains structural stability, is easily accessible to the public and uses renewable energy so it does not rely on the national power grid.
“It is important that the overall mobility of a city takes into consideration the needs of all users – not only motorized transport. I am delighted to see this small, yet impactful intervention which has the potential of reviving small pockets of urban public spaces in Karantina. This initiative complements UN-Habitat’s rehabilitation of the National HIV and TB Centre and makes the Centre safely accessible for pedestrians. UN-Habitat works across the country to improve the quality and increase the number of inclusive and accessible public spaces as places for dialogue and recreation,” said, Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
Joana Dabaj, Co-founder and Principal coordinator of CatalyticAction added “co-designing public spaces that are child friendly and inclusive is an important approach for a vital city, that is not only suitable for children to grow up in but for everyone to live in. At CatalyticAction, we believe that children and their families have the right to participate in shaping their built environment and develop a sense of belonging to it especially amidst the multiple crises that Lebanon is going through”.
-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
About CatalyticAction
We are a charity that works to empower vulnerable children and their communities through participatory built interventions. We champion the co-production of dignified built environments where everyone can take part in the creation of equitable, inclusive and sustainable communities. Through this process of co-design we build local human capacity that ensures our work has a lasting impact.
For more information on CatalyticAction visit: www.catalyticaction.org
For media enquiries:
Layal Abou Antoun
UN-Habitat Lebanon
T: +961 1 985 398
M: +961 81 512629
E: layal.abouantoun@un.org

Joana Dabaj
CatalyticAction
E: joana.dabaj@catalyticaction.org

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/174036-un-habitat-and-catalyticaction-rehabilitate-streets-and-sidewalks-karantina-%E2%80%93-making-key




Date: 02 March 2022
Title: Germany/KfW and UNOPS Support Communities Affected by Beirut Port explosion
Content: 02 March 2022
With the support from the Federal Republic of Germany through the KfW Development Bank, UNOPS will rehabilitate damaged public service buildings and public spaces and restore critical urban services including roads, storm and wastewater networks and provide solar energy solutions in the municipalities of Beirut and Bourj Hammoud. The project – based on a thorough needs assessment and consultation process which is currently ongoing - will focus on the most damaged, low income, and underserved parts of the affected areas, as well as on service delivery buildings serving the population in the Beirut and Bourj Hammoud municipalities.
Mr. Sascha Stadtler, Director KfW Office Lebanon, said: “About 1 ½ years after the port explosion and much needed small scale emergency measures by so many actors and donors including Germany , it is time for a more comprehensive and coordinated reconstruction process of municipal infrastructure and services in the affected areas. With a grant contribution of 20 million Euros Germany through KfW development bank is contributing to this effort. Together with UNOPS we want to capitalize on the achievements and experiences reached so far by other national and international development partners. We are always guided by the principle: building back better. At the end of the reconstruction process, we want to have a city and a society that is more resilient to future crises.”
Mr. Muhammad Usman Akram, UNOPS Director of the Amman Multi-country Office said: “Our latest  partnership with KfW in Lebanon seeks to enhance community resilience and promote social cohesion through improving access to critical services offered by Beirut and Bourj Hammoud municipalities. Thanks to the funding from Germany, UNOPS will assist in ensuring sustainability of the recovery process for the benefit of the most affected communities ”.
In addition to undertaking major infrastructure works, UNOPS will engage with civil society actors and local NGOs in implementing the project, given the key role played by local organizations in responding to the Beirut Port explosion and their in-depth knowledge of the communities’ needs. Through a small grants component, the project will support creative, effective, and sustainable small initiatives that would benefit the affected communities and promote social cohesion at the local level. UNOPS will also carry out capacity building activities for the municipal personnel and other project partners, in line with the UNOPS mandate, related to the operations and maintenance of the rehabilitated assets and infrastructure.
On 4 August 2020, a devastating explosion rocked the Beirut Port, destroying most of the port’s facilities and severely damaging the surrounding neighbourhoods within six kilometers of the port area. The disaster left more than 200 people dead, around 6,000 injured or disabled, and estimated 300,000 homeless. Preliminary assessments indicated that the neighbourhoods most affected by the explosion are the municipality of Beirut in Beirut Governorate and Bourj Hammoud, Bachoura, and Sin El Fil municipalities in Mount Lebanon Governorate.

About KfW:
On behalf of the German Federal Government, and primarily the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), KfW Development Bank finances and supports programmes and projects that mainly involve public sector players in developing countries and emerging economies – from their conception and execution to monitoring their success. KfW's goal is to help partner countries fight poverty, maintain peace, protect both the environment and the climate and shape globalisation in an appropriate way.
In addition to the urgently needed aid for the reconstruction of Beirut, KfW is also committed to long-term prospects in the rest of the country. Since 2020, Lebanon has been one of the selected partner countries of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) with which long-term development goals are pursued. In 2021 alone, new commitments amounted to roughly 200 million euros.
About UNOPS:
UNOPS helps the UN and its partners provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. The organization’s mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. UNOPS services cover infrastructure, project management, procurement, financial management and human resources. Partners call on UNOPS to supplement their own capacities, improve speed, reduce risks, boost cost-effectiveness and increase quality.
UNOPS Operational Hub in Amman covers projects in Jordan, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, and Yemen and implements work in partnership with bilateral donors, national governments and other UN agencies.

For Press Inquiries, please contact:
Anwar Abu Sakieneh, Communications Specialist (UNOPS)
Mobile number: +962 7 9902 6315
AnwarAB@unops.org  or +962 6 5902122
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/173652-germanykfw-and-unops-support-communities-affected-beirut-port-explosion




Date: 25 February 2022
Title: WHO and IOM Sign Agreement to Support the National AIDS Control Program in Lebanon
Content: 25 February 2022

Through this grant, the NAP will be able to expand its reach and services through 13 thematic local NGOs for voluntary counseling and testing and provide non-interrupted medications and consumables supplies for diagnosis and treatment till the end of December 2024.
The National AIDS Control Program was established in 1989 as a joint program of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) and WHO after the steady increase in the number of people living with HIV in Lebanon following the first reported case in 1984. NAP reported a cumulative of 2,366 people living with HIV (PLHIV) in Lebanon by the end of 2018[1].
NAP currently provides anti-retroviral therapy, treatment, care, and support to nearly 2,000 people living with HIV; along with voluntary counselling and testing to nearly 18,000 individuals through thematic NGOs. NAP also offers treatment monitoring including viral load testing to achieve the 95-95-95 global targets[2]; and it established an HIV PCR unit, as part of the joint testing platform with TB, to add to its services in Karantina.
“This program did not stop operating and delivering medications to people living with HIV/AIDS despite the challenging situation of the pandemic and Beirut Blast which directly affected their building. I believe in health for all, and no one should be left behind,” said Dr. Iman Shankiti, WHO representative in Lebanon.
“Lebanon is a model for the provision of differentiated prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care services to people living with HIV with support from the regional Middle East Response (MER) grant funded by The Global Fund and implemented by the National AIDS Program in partnership with IOM and WHO”, added Dr. Nevin WILSON, IOM’s Senior Regional Project Coordinator for the Middle East Response.
Despite the limited financial and human resources, NAP has been responding effectively and efficiently, prioritising vulnerable population irrespective of nationality and status with a range of differentiated diagnostic, prevention and treatment services including raising awareness amongst those who are most at risk.
For more information, please contact Tala Khatib – IOM Lebanon at talkhatib@iom.int and Hala Habib – WHO Lebanon at hhabib@who.int.

[1] Ministry of Public Health in Lebanon- National Aids Control Program. Epidemiology World AIDS day 2017. (2017). Available at, https://www.moph.gov.lb/en/Pages/2/4000/aids.
[2] The updated UNAIDS targets for 2025 aim for 95% of those living with HIV to know their status, 95% of those who know their status to be on treatment and 95% of those on treatment to be virally suppressed.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/173310-who-and-iom-sign-agreement-support-national-aids-control-program-lebanon




Date: 24 February 2022
Title: UN-Habitat equips Beirut Fire Brigade operations room through funding from the Government of Japan
Content: 24 February 2022

“We highly value the support of the Japanese Embassy and UN-Habitat in addressing some of the devastating effects of the Beirut Port explosion. Today we are celebrating together the restoration of hope to the Beirut Fire Brigade Centre. With this intervention, not only will rescue works of our firefighters be facilitated, but thousands of residents in the city will be better protected from fires and other emergencies.” said Marwan Abboud, Governor of Beirut.
“We will never forget the courage and fortitude those firefighters demonstrated in defiance of risking their lives for the sake of public security. For this, they will be remembered forever as sacred saviors of the country facing the Beirut harbor explosion. I strongly hope that the project will support the center’s recovery from the devastating incident and will help it maintain high level of performance.” said H.E. Takeshi Okubo, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon.
The donation consists of equipping the operations room and lecture hall with ICT and IT equipment’s including servers, CCTV cameras, landlines phones, a smart board and TV as well as desks and furniture for the bedrooms and a skid loader to support in heavy lifting rescue missions.  The fire brigade also received handwashing stations, as part of UN-Habitat’s efforts to raise awareness on COVID-19.
‘‘This donation comes at a time when rescuers from the Beirut Fire Brigade are working in challenging situations with basic operations means and equipment. We are very grateful for this timely and most needed contribution from the Government of Japan and UN-Habitat, allowing for better communication across our different centres throughout the city especially in rescue missions to protect the Lebanese people.’’ said colonel Maher El Ajouz, Chief of the Beirut Fire Brigade.
‘’As we mark a key accomplishment of UN-Habitat’s ongoing support to Beirut’s continued recovery from the Port explosions, we re-affirm our commitment to reviving the essence of Beirut while ensuring that municipal and key city institutions, such as the Beirut Fire Brigade are able to respond and prevent emergencies effectively,’’ said Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
This intervention is part of UN-Habitat’s wider project entitled “Support for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of most vulnerable urban areas in Beirut impacted by the Port explosion” funded by the Government of Japan. It has multiple interventions, including the rehabilitation of 11 heritage buildings of heritage value and key public facilities in Rmeil Cluster; COVID-19 awareness-raising and installation of handwashing stations; improved livelihood through cash-for-work activities; support under municipal services – provided to the Beirut Fire Brigade Centre in Karantina; and, upgrading of Laziza and William Hawi Parks.
-ENDS-
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/173240-un-habitat-equips-beirut-fire-brigade-operations-room-through-funding-government-japan




Date: 28 January 2022
Title: Lebanese crisis forcing youth out of learning, robbing them of their futures: UNICEF survey
Content: 28 January 2022
The report – Searching for Hope – says that more than 4 in 10 youth in Lebanon reduced spending on education to buy basic food, medicine and other essential items, and 3 in 10 stopped their education altogether.
Citing a UNICEF Youth-Focused Rapid Assessment[1], the report also indicates that:
Dropping out of education and learning can severely affect young people’s life-long learning and employment prospects. Unless action is taken to reverse current trends, this will worsen and have serious implications for future growth and social cohesion in Lebanon.
While more and more young people are forced to drop out of education, they often find themselves ill-equipped to compete for increasingly scarce jobs and frequently end up taking up low-paying work in the informal sector.
Lebanon’s crisis has also led to an increase in other negative coping mechanisms besides reducing education costs.
Haneen, 17, said: “The money we receive now is no longer enough. Inflation is so high, and incomes haven’t matched this. Every month we have to choose a priority – rent, medicines, food. But we can never have them all.”
Hind[2], 22, said: “My outlook for the future here is bleak. For the first time in my life, I want to leave my country, I want to leave Lebanon.”
“Young people in Lebanon urgently need support. Investments are needed to ensure financial concerns do not prevent them from getting the education and skills they need to eventually find decent work and contribute to the stability and prosperity of Lebanon,” Ettie Higgins, Representative a.i., UNICEF Lebanon.
- END -
Note to editors
Learn more
UNICEF’s report "Searching for Hope”
Listen to youths' voices in this VIDEO
Download multimedia material HERE
About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/
Follow UNICEF on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube
For media queries, please contact:
Blanche Baz, UNICEF Lebanon: bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874
Maya Outayek, UNICEF Lebanon: moutayek@unicef.org +961 70 190 634

[1] The YFRA was conducted in September 2021 among 900 youth. UNICEF describes youth as persons aged 15-24.
[2] Name changed to protect identity.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/169837-lebanese-crisis-forcing-youth-out-learning-robbing-them-their-futures-unicef-survey




Date: 17 January 2022
Title: The Lebanon Humanitarian Fund (LHF) allocates $6 million to support vulnerable populations
Content: 17 January 2022
The activities are implemented by 6 national and 7 international NGOs and target all vulnerable populations with a focus on outreach to currently unsupported groups among Lebanese, Syrian refugees, Palestine refugees, and migrants. 61 percent of the indicative targeted population will be Lebanese, 32 percent Syrian, 4 percent Migrant, and 3 percent Palestine refugees.
“The LHF fulfills a critical role in focusing on those who are most in need of urgent assistance, targeting its support for the most vulnerable. In this allocation, the support will be for children out of education or at risk of dropout, children with disabilities and child survivors of GBV, as well as survivors of GBV and individuals at high risk of exploitation and abuse including those people with disabilities and special needs” said Najat Rochdi, United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon and Custodian of the Fund.
As a component of the transparency and accountability of funding provided through the LHF, the Fund maintains a commitment of zero tolerance for Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (SEA). The end goal is that all LHF partners have in place robust systems in their respective organizations to prevent both the incidence of SEA and when prevention fails, that their systems can effectively respond to the victims.
“This funding from LHF comes at a critical time as the dire situation in Lebanon continues to deteriorate and the Emergency Response Plan (ERP) has only received $36.2 million (9.5%) of the total request of $383 million leaving considerable unmet lifesaving activities” noted Rochdi, adding that “we count on generous donor support to address such vital unmet needs while we will all advocate for a swift and effective implementation of the reform agenda as the only way to end the humanitarian needs and to start a sustainable recovery”.
- END-
For more information, please contact:
Helena Mazarro, Deputy Head of OCHA Lebanon Office, mazarro@un.org
Henry Simonin, Associate Humanitarian Affairs Officer, simonin@un.org



UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/168281-lebanon-humanitarian-fund-lhf-allocates-6-million-support-vulnerable-populations




Date: 21 December 2021
Title: UN SECRETARY-GENERAL REMARKS TO MEDIA ON VISIT TO LEBANON
Content: 21 December 2021
I thank President Michel Aoun, Speaker of Parliament Nabih Berri, Prime Minister Najib Mikati, the Government of Lebanon and the Lebanese people for their warm welcome.
I am grateful, not only for the possibility to engage with the political and military authorities in important discussions about the future of Lebanon, but also with the religious leaders, several groups of representatives of civil society, women activists and youth.
It has been an honour to visit Lebanon once again.
But it grieves me to see the people of this beautiful country suffering so much.
The people of Lebanon face immense challenges.
Yet, despite the strains they endure, the warmth and generosity of the Lebanese people continues to shine.
The region and the world remain thankful for Lebanon’s generosity in giving refuge to people fleeing violent conflict.
I first witnessed this as High Commissioner for Refugees and I felt it again these past two days in conversations with Lebanese people from all walks of life.
I commend Lebanon’s spirit of co-existence and tolerance.
While here, I visited the Beirut Port.
My thoughts are with the victims of the devastating blast that took the precious lives of more than 200 people – parents, daughters, sons, friends and colleagues from over a dozen countries.
The United Nations mourns with you.  Two children of UN staff members were among the youngest victims.
The Lebanese people and the families of all the victims deserve answers and justice that can only be met through impartial, thorough and transparent investigation.
I am gravely concerned about the impact of the economic and financial crisis in the country, causing ever more people to need humanitarian assistance.
Yesterday, I visited Tripoli in north Lebanon and today Tyre in the south, and I was very moved when listening to first-hand testimonies of how this crisis is impacting people’s daily lives.
People expect their political leaders to listen to their needs and to restore the economy, including through a functioning government and state institutions, and by effectively fighting corruption.
These past two days, I have urged Lebanon’s political leaders to work together to implement reforms that respond to the demands of the Lebanese people for greater welfare, accountability, protection and transparency and give hope for a better future.
I have underlined the need to allow for the swift start of the formal negotiations to finalize the agreement with the IMF without further impediments.
Seeing the suffering of the people of Lebanon, Lebanese leaders do not have the right to be divided and paralyze the country.
All government institutions are measured on results: social protection, access to electricity and water, education and basic healthcare, good governance and the protection of human rights.
In charting a path towards sustainable recovery, civil society, women and young people have a critical role to play.
Their voices must be heard and their proposals seriously considered.
Free and fair parliamentary elections, held on time in 2022, will be an essential opportunity for the people to make their voices heard.
The announcement of the president of the republic after our meeting that the elections will be held in early May, confirmed in my meetings with the prime minister and the president of the parliament, represent an essential guarantee that the constitution will be respected.
The meaningful participation of women will be essential.
As part of our commitment to Lebanon’s stability, I visited UNIFIL in southern Lebanon.
Commitment to the full implementation of Resolution 1701 and maintaining the cessation of hostilities across the Blue Line and decreasing tensions between the parties is crucial.
The rockets fired from Lebanese territory and the responses from Israel earlier this year are reminders of the dangers to international peace and security.
A miscalculation or misunderstanding could have profound consequences.
UNIFIL also needs full and unimpeded access throughout its area of operations.
I take this opportunity to salute the thousands of women and men peacekeepers who are far from their families and countries serving peace in Lebanon.
I would also like to stress that continued international support to the Lebanese army and other state security institutions is essential for the stability of Lebanon.
I encourage all Member States to continue and increase their support.
The United Nations, with the international community, including through the International Support Group, remains committed to helping promote a sustainable recovery and an inclusive and dignified future for Lebanon and its people in full respect of human rights.
The international community must be ready to substantially increase its solidarity with Lebanon in the implementation of the needed reforms to stabilize the economy and address the basic needs of the Lebanese people.
Let’s not forget that the UN humanitarian response plan is only 11% funded despite the dramatic situation of the economy.
Let me close by once again appealing to Lebanese political leaders to work together to resolve this crisis – and the international community to come forward, strengthening its support for Lebanon.
Thank you.
Moderator: Thank you Mr. Secretary-General. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now open the floor for Q&As. We will have only one question per person to allow as many people as possible to ask questions. Please raise your hand, and if you take the floor, please say your name and the name of the media organization you belong to. Thank you.
Question in Arabic: Marlene Khalife
Secretary-General: Just a moment, because I am having problems here.
Question in Arabic:  The United Nations has co-chaired multiple conferences with donor countries to support the Lebanese people, at the invitation of France. Are the UN and France preparing for any new conference, especially as France will preside the Security Council starting the new year?
Secretary-General:  We have a number of initiatives prepared, but we, - can you hear me?
This was about the possibility of organizing a conference. So, we have a number of initiatives prepared and we will be ready, and we have been in contact with different Member States to organize a strong mobilization of the international community, including the possibility of a conference with a strong mobilization of the international community.
But the international community will probably not, independently of the support that has been provided, will not be responding as we need to respond if they see the country paralyzed, and if they do not see a number of clear reforms, in relation to the economic, the social and the political life of the country, guaranteeing that Lebanese institutions are putting the country on the right track, fighting corruption, respecting human rights, and presenting a credible economic recovery plan, in which, of course, the negotiations with the International Monetary Fund are essential.
We need the support of the international community to be much larger than what it is today. And Lebanon, the Lebanese people deserve it. But there is a homework that must be done in Lebanon, and that homework is essential for the credibility of Lebanon, in order to make sure that we are successful in mobilizing the support of the international community.
Question in Arabic: Your Excellency, you expressed in your statement your keenness on Lebanon’s security and safety. What Lebanon is currently experiencing is violations by the Israeli entity that still occupies large swathes of Lebanese territory and violates Resolution 1701, which, under your supervision, you work to implement and enforce so that it serves at least as a security process between Lebanon and occupied Palestine. Can the UN, or is it really working to pressure the Israeli entity to stop its land, maritime and aerial violations and the use of Lebanese airspace to attack brotherly Arab countries?
Secretary-General: First of all, all violations are unacceptable, as I said in my intervention. And on the other hand, we are totally committed, as we know where the origin of the problem is, we are totally committed to the two-state solution in Palestine and Israel.
We are totally committed for a Palestinian state, created and recognized in line with resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council, and living in peace and security with the State of Israel, and with, obviously, the guarantee that the integrity of Lebanon will be entirely respected.
Question: Thank you from CCTV, Chinese national television. Two questions is okay, yes? I have been in Beirut for two months. Every day, we are talking about the economic crisis and the political disputes. So, what do you think the future of Lebanon, and how can we achieve unity here in a country so divided?
And another question is about China. You will go to Beijing to participate in the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games. So, some countries boycott the Olympics diplomatically, so what do you think of the relationship between sports and politics? Thank you.
Secretary-General: Well, the economic crisis in Lebanon is today extremely deep. With the collapse of large sectors of the economy and the financial sector, with the dramatic situation of people that see their savings, and cannot get them, savings of a full life of work. When the jobs [are] disappearing in large numbers. When for the first time, I believe in Lebanon, problems of nutrition existing, we are facing a very, very dramatic situation.
That is why it is so important to restart negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and to establish a credible plan of economic recovery, able to mobilize the support of the international community. But that requires, of course, political will to solve.
Second, I received an invitation of the International Olympic Committee, and I accepted that invitation. Of course, every country will do whatever every country decides. It's not for me to take position in relation to what other countries will do. I do what I believe I should do in my position of Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Question in Arabic:  What will the UN offer in terms of support to Lebanon during the upcoming elections to ensure that they are held on time?
Secretary-General: First of all, the elections need to be convened, and I got guarantees that it will happen.  And, the United Nations has the capacity to provide technical support, and that technical support will be provided. Our aim, naturally, is that we will do it in the perspective of the organization of free and fair elections, with adequate opportunities, the same for all those that will dispute these elections.
Question: Annamaria Ohan, EFE, the Spanish news agency. After listening to testimonies of Lebanese people and, overall, your visit, do you think there must be an international investigation regarding the Beirut Port explosion for it to be as transparent as possible?
Secretary-General: Well, there is an investigation taking part, and I am a strong supporter of the separation of powers. I would not take any initiative to put into question what is being done, but obviously, I believe that it is necessary to have an investigation that is fully independent, impartial and transparent. And I hope that this will be the case in the Lebanese context. And of course, if that will not be the case in the Lebanese context, I believe that it will be important for the international community to act; [that] requires, of course, mechanisms of decision that go far beyond my own competence.
Question in Arabic: Are there any updates with regards to the revision of the role of UNIFIL that you had asked for upon the latest extension of UNIFIL’s mandate last August, in terms of UNIFIL’s field work and cooperation with the Lebanese Armed Forces?
Secretary-General: I only believe in reviewing mandates in order to improve them. So, if there is any intention to improve the mandate, of course, we'll be very much open to consider it. But I would not be interested in any revision of the mandate to make it worse than what it is today. So, our job is not to change our mandate; that belongs to the Security Council. Our job is to act according to our mandate with the impartiality that characterizes the United Nations. And at the same time, in a moment like this, I think that UNIFIL has the duty and I believe UNIFIL is doing it, to express its solidarity with the Lebanese people and in its area of [operation], to support the Lebanese people and also, with the decision that the Security Council has authorized to support with different kinds of fuel, food and medicines and other aspects, the Lebanese Armed Forces, with which UNIFIL, as you know, cooperates entirely.  The UNIFIL works in close cooperation with the Lebanese Armed Forces. And that should not be changed.
Question in Arabic:  Will the Lebanese health sector benefits from any sort of assistance from the UN amid the current political, economic and sanitary crisis? And if that's the case, how would this assistance be implemented and through which mechanism? Thank you.
Secretary-General: The UN has mobilized all its agencies, especially in the context of the COVID, to fully support Lebanon, and I believe that UNICEF and WHO have been very active in relation to support of the vaccination process, in relation to the provision of different equipment, in relation to cooperation with different entities of the civil society involved in this sector, and in providing technical assistance to the official departments that are responsible for health in Lebanon. We are totally committed to support the Lebanese people in these very difficult circumstances, in which increased poverty is added to a newly spreading COVID-19.
Question: Mariam Saleh, Press TV. First of all, I would like to say that people of Lebanon highly value the role, the pivotal role of the UNIFIL that have been among us, of course for decades. Another issue is that the economic crisis in Lebanon is partially due to the presence of a very high number of refugees in Lebanon. And a daily question that is on the minds of the Lebanese is that the funding of the Syrian refugees in Lebanon is what is stopping them from going back to their home country. What can you tell us about this?
Secretary-General: Well, first of all, I am very grateful to the Lebanese people for the way Lebanon has opened its doors, its borders, its hearts to Syrian refugees, when so many rich countries in the world have closed theirs. On the other hand, I was, as High Commissioner for Refugees, responsible for the support to Syrian refugees. Now, we believe that independently of that support, and let's not forget that Syrian refugees, 90 per cent are in a situation of extreme poverty. Now, the emergency response plan of the UN is addressed to the Lebanese people themselves, because the Lebanese people themselves [are] now having dramatic humanitarian needs. So, I don't think that we should, in the present moment, only consider refugees. I think it's the Lebanese people that is in the center of our concerns. I do not think that it is because of the meager, very meager support that we provide to Syrian refugees in Lebanon, that they do not go to Syria. I think it's because the situation in Syria is still far from giving the guarantees that the refugees themselves feel necessary, but of course, any Syrian refugee that wants to go back to [Syria] will be supported by us.
Question in Arabic:  Al Jazeera. Your Excellency, you mentioned yesterday efforts to facilitate the maritime border delineation negotiations between Lebanon and Israel. What are the steps that the UN can take in this regard and where is the stumbling block in the negotiations in your view?
Secretary-General: These negotiations are taking place between Israel and Lebanon, with the mediation of the United States. So, the UN has not a direct role in the mediation. The mediation is done by the United States. Of course, it takes place in UNIFIL, in Naqoura, in UNIFIL. But, we are hosts, we are not actors. And obviously, the difficulties are related to the delimitation. That, of course, is the limitation in which the two countries have not yet agreed. I think it's very important that these negotiations move quickly, because we are discussing areas with rich natural resources. And for the Lebanese economy, those rich natural resources will be very important. And so, I think it is in the interest of everybody to move quickly with these negotiations and to come quickly to a result. From all sides, we'll do anything that we are required in order to support that process.
Question: Nabil Abi Saab, Alaraby TV station. Mr. Secretary-General, did you raise the issue of the eastern border of Lebanon in this visit? Did you discuss the situation on the eastern border between Lebanon and Syria? Because, as we read in your periodic reports, that these borders are not under the control of the Lebanese army in some parts of it. So, what do you think about the eastern borders? What should be done? For the State of Lebanon and, to stabilize maybe, or to have better control of these borders?
Secretary-General: It was not an area that was discussed in depth. We mentioned several difficult situations in that border. I remember, when I was High Commissioner for Refugees, there was an area, let me see […] Aarsal, that I visited, where there was infiltration of several groups from the Syrian area and where the Lebanese Armed Forces were asked to come and to protect the population. And in my opinion, it is essential that the Lebanese Armed Forces are able to control all the borders of the country.
Moderator: With no further questions, thank you, Mr. Secretary-General, for your presence. Merci beaucoup. Shukran.

*****


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/166234-un-secretary-general-remarks-media-visit-lebanon




Date: 20 December 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Transcript of Remarks during Meeting of UN Family with Prime Minister and Lebanese Government
Content: 20 December 2021
GRAND SERAIL, Beirut, Lebanon
Dear Minister Mikati,
Thank you very much for your invitation and for your wonderful hospitality
Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,
Dear colleagues,
I came several times in the past to Lebanon and I came to Lebanon to witness the enormous generosity of the Lebanese people in relation to the Syrian refugees I was supposed to support as United Nations High-Commissioner for Refugees.
And I remember what it represented at the time, the entry of much more than one million Syrians into Lebanon, not to mention the old Palestinian Community of a million, with the dramatic impact on the economy, on the society and of course the Syrian conflict with a dramatic impact on the security of the country.
And in those circumstances, and in a world in which so many doors are closed, so many rich countries closed their borders, in Lebanon, I saw borders open, doors open, and hearts open to receive Syrians.
And I was always deeply moved by your generosity. A generosity that is rooted in one of the oldest civilizations in the world. We believe that the capital city of my country Lisbon was founded by the Phoenicians and since then this has always been an area in the world where civilization is deeply rooted and that have an enormous influence in the region and beyond.
And the Lebanese society represents not only from the civilizational point of view, but from the religious and cultural point of view, one example that I remember in my youth and in my adulthood, an example, extraordinary example of religious tolerance of the capacity to create a diverse society that was harmonious that was prosperous and that was I would say the center of the region. And Lebanon was where people would come to study.
Lebanon was where people would come to do sophisticated businesses. Lebanon was the country with the solid financial system of the region. And so, I have to say that it is for me very emotional to come back to Lebanon and to come back to Lebanon knowing that you are facing a very dramatic situation.
A very dramatic situation in which obviously the Lebanese have some responsibilities but let’s not forget that many responsibilities are also outside Lebanon, both because of the dramatic situation of the region and all its implications, the questions, I remember the Israeli invasion several years ago, of course the impact of the Syria crisis, and then all the interferences of big and medium-sized powers, many times conspiring to make it difficult for the Lebanese to be able to come together themselves. But the truth is that the Lebanese people are today suffering tremendously and that creates naturally a great responsibility for Lebanese leaders to come together.
I mean this is not the moment for divisions to be explored. This is the moment for unity and for all the institutions to do everything possible to solve the problems of the country. But let’s be clear, Lebanon also deserves now the same kind of solidarity that was given to the Syrian refugees and it deserves a massive mobilization of resources to support your economic recovery.
I was extremely impressed by the commitment of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the Speaker of Parliament. We have the guarantee that elections will take place according to the constitution allowing for the new Parliament to be elected before the end of the mandate of the present Parliament, and I was extremely encouraged by what the Prime Minister told me about the strong commitment of the government to negotiate with the International Monetary Fund and at the same time to lead the number of economic, financial, administrative reforms that are necessary for the country to take full benefit of the potential created by international support to guarantee that the recovery of Lebanon starts as quickly as possible and is effective as possible.
Now in this context, it is of course a great pleasure to meet you for this important discussion on the partnership between the United Nations and Lebanon and on our cooperation, as you know we have the Agenda 2030, the Sustainable Development Goals, I know Lebanon was deeply committed in this direction and I know that the crisis of course undermines this effort, but we want to do everything possible to support Lebanon to come again on track in relation to these objectives that we both share.
And I believe that everybody in the room on both sides have a role to play. Our strategies need to be coherent, our methods aligned in pursuit of a common goal: a stable peaceful Lebanon that offers again hope and opportunity to all its people. And it’s the role of the United Nations to do everything to support the Lebanese government in this direction. This strategic partnership is critical to finding sustainable solutions that are tailored to the challenges that you face.
I want to say that our mission is essentially a mission of solidarity. You can be sure that Lebanon is today in the center of all our strategies and efforts, both at the level of the Secretariat and at the level of the different agencies that are cooperating with the Lebanese authorities, not to mention our two missions, and in particular now UNIFIL that we want to be more and more actively cooperating with the Lebanese army as a fundamental factor of stability and security in the southern part of Lebanon.
We must at all costs avoid the repetition of forms of conflicts of the past that have dramatic consequences for the Lebanese people and we must make sure that Security Council resolutions are implemented and that violations of the ceasefire do not take place.
We are also launching as you know a common agenda in the UN, and in this common agenda one of the key aspects is the support of the United Nations to member states in the review of their social contract in the context of all the changes that are happening in the world, changes in the climate, in technology, changes related to the impact of things that were unforeseen ten or twenty years ago in the structure of the economies, in the structure of labor markets and that require new forms of social protection and new forms of relationship between the state and the citizens.
Of course, we know that you are now facing a very special, very difficult phase, but we want Lebanon to be part of this important discussion, of how to build in this 21st century a new social contract in the context of a new global deal in which international relations become much more just than what they are at the present moment.
We are also at your disposal in our context with international financial institutions to make sure that they are able to provide to Lebanon the maximum possible support, and on the other hand, we will be working to make sure that Lebanon’s Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework that brings together the government, the civil society and the private sector has our full support. We want to be strongly engaged with the government in all these aspects.
Allow me a word, we are very much committed in the UN to gender equality and I believe that societies work much better when women play an important role in all structures of those societies. We have now parity in the 200 top leaders of the UN and in the 143 Resident Coordinator Systems, and we really want to express our wish to see Lebanon move forward in a determined way also in the perspective of gender equality.
We are totally committed to support Lebanon in this regard and I have to say that to guarantee peace, to guarantee stability, and to guarantee harmony in a society, women’s role is extremely important, so you will excuse me for this, that is a very personal commitment and personal passion and my wife wouldn’t let me be different on this regard. I would like to say that we are totally at your disposal to support the efforts that I know are taking place, and I hope the next parliament will have larger number of women than in the past.
The Lebanese people are suffering as a result of many factors, but one thing you can be absolutely sure, Lebanon is not alone and the entire United Nations family is with you. And it is essential that we tackle this linked crisis together with a united front based on a focused, coherent and coordinated effort with only one agenda: the wellbeing of the Lebanese people.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/166064-un-secretary-general-transcript-remarks-during-meeting-un-family-prime-minister-and-lebanese




Date: 20 December 2021
Title: Joint Communiqué - UN Secretary-General meeting with Religious Leaders
Content: 20 December 2021
By United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres; His Beatitude Patriarch Bechara Boutros Rahi, Maronite Patriarch of Antioch and Head of the Maronite Church; His Eminence Abdul Latif Derian, Sunni Grand Mufti; Judge Sheikh Mahdi El-Yahfoufi representing  His Eminence Sheikh Ali Al Khatib, Deputy Head of the Higher Islamic Shiite Council; His Beatitude Patriarch John X Yaziji, Patriarch of Antioch for the Greek Orthodox Church; His Eminence Sheikh Sami Abil Mona, Druze Sheikh Aql and Head of the Druze Unitarian Council; and His Holiness Catholicos Aram I Keshishian, Head of the Catholicosate of the House of Cilicia of the Armenian Orthodox Church.
Eminent religious leaders met today with the United Nations Secretary-General during his visit to Lebanon.
Participants confirmed their commitment to openness, tolerance and coexistence as the essence of Lebanon’s identity and stability.
They stressed the importance of safeguarding these values, which are at the core of faith, especially at this difficult time of grave financial and socioeconomic crisis that is heavily impacting the population. Participants expressed their determination to focus on what unites Lebanon and brings its people together, and they encouraged their communities to do the same and to adopt dialogue as a means of resolving differences in a spirit of consensus and togetherness.
Participants emphasized a shared desire across all religions and confessions to see Lebanon recover and prosper, and they committed to doing all they can to restore hope to its people.
The meeting reconfirmed the support of the United Nations to Lebanon in order to halt the crisis and spare the people from further suffering.
ENDS
*****
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/166018-joint-communiqu%C3%A9-un-secretary-general-meeting-religious-leaders




Date: 20 December 2021
Title: UN SECRETARY-GENERAL TRANSCRIPT OF REMARKS TO MEDIA AFTER MEETING WITH  H.E. MR. NABIH BERRI, SPEAKER OF PARLIAMENT OF LEBANON
Content: 20 December 2021
Very good morning.
We just had a very constructive conversation, and I’m very grateful to Speaker Nabih Berri, a very constructive conversation about how to best address the complex and difficult situation in which Lebanon is today.
I do believe that only Lebanese can solve Lebanese problems, but I also do believe that the international community needs to strengthen its support to Lebanon to overcome the present very difficult circumstances.
And the United Nations wants to express its strong solidarity with the Lebanese people in this moment and we’ll do everything to mobilize the international community to strengthen its support to Lebanon, humanitarian support, development support and support to the restructuring of the different aspects of the economy and of the financial situation of the country.
Just before this visit, I was in the Port of Beirut to pay tribute to the victims that lost their lives and to express my solidarity to all those wounded and to the families. I know the suffering and I know the will of the people to know the truth, the will of the people to have proper accountability and I want to express my very deep solidarity to all the victims of that tragedy.
On the other hand, we had the opportunity to discuss the presence of UNIFIL in southern Lebanon, the need to end all violations, of the ceasefire and in particular the Speaker has drawn my attention to the violations of the airspace of Lebanon, and also the need for total implementation of the resolutions of the Security Council.
And we discussed the importance of the cooperation between UNIFIL and the Lebanese Armed Forces that the international community needs also to support much more strongly.
In the scope of our activities we will also be doing everything we can in order to facilitate the negotiations that hopefully will lead to a rapid solution for the delimitation of the maritime border allowing Lebanon to take full profit of the natural resources that lay there and would of course constitute an important contribution to address the economic and social problems of the country.
This is the moment for Lebanese political leaders to come together to overcome divisions, and this is the moment for the international community to strengthen their support to the people of Lebanon. The combination of these two factors, the determination and the unity of Lebanese leaders and the solidarity of the international community, I hope will allow in the near future the people of Lebanon having again the life and the prosperity that was characteristic of the past and that corresponds to one of the oldest civilizations in the world.
[ENDS]
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/166038-un-secretary-general-transcript-remarks-media-after-meeting-he-mr-nabih-berri-speaker




Date: 20 December 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Transcript of Remarks to Media after Meeting with H.E. Prime Minister Najib Mikati
Content: 20 December 2021
GRAND SERAIL, BEIRUT
I would like to once again express my gratitude to Prime Minister Mikati for his invitation and for his hospitality. This is the second day of my visit and I must say that I have reasons to feel encouraged.
This is a visit of solidarity, solidarity with the people of Lebanon that was so generous with the refugees that came to the country but now is suffering enormously and deserves the same solidarity from the international community. But obviously it is necessary that the Lebanese themselves do their part of the job.
I was very encouraged in my meetings with the President, the Speaker, and now with the Prime Minister. There is a clear guarantee that elections will take place at the beginning of May before the constitutional date is defined and this means that Lebanon will create the conditions to renew its Parliament and with that, hopefully, to establish new political stability for the future.
On the other hand, I was very impressed today by the work the government is doing in relation to the preparation of the negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. A lot of technical work has been done. I am happy that the United Nations team is fully supporting the government and I hope that the necessary political conditions will be created as soon as possible to allow for formal negotiations to take place. But it is encouraging to see how much serious work is being done.
On the other hand, I cannot omit that I had a very emotional moment this morning when I visited the harbor. The suffering of the people, first of all, those that perished, their families, the wounded, the dramatic impact in the lives of so many people is something that of course generates very deep solidarity. On the other hand, I have been receiving messages from many victims claiming for the need of truth to be established, for the need for an independent investigation that is able to produce that truth. I fully understand their concerns and I hope that the institutions will be able to guarantee that.
I want to express to all the victims my very deep solidarity and the hope that the country will be able, not only to rebuild the harbor but to rebuild its economy and to create the conditions for the prosperity and the development that the Lebanese people deserve.
Thank you very much.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/166056-un-secretary-general-transcript-remarks-media-after-meeting-he-prime-minister-najib-mikati




Date: 19 December 2021
Title: TRANSCRIPT OF UN SECRETARY-GENERAL REMARKS TO MEDIA AFTER MEETING WITH  H.E. MR. MICHEL AOUN, PRESIDENT OF LEBANON
Content: 19 December 2021
Baabda, Lebanon
19 December 2021
Merci infiniment Monsieur le Président. Permettez-moi de parler en Anglais.
Good evening, I am very happy to be back in Lebanon.
I have just had a productive meeting with His Excellency President Aoun, where I thanked him for his hospitality and for the very important discussions that we had today.
I also expressed the gratitude of the United Nations and the international community for Lebanon’s generosity in hosting so many refugees from the Syrian conflict.
I was High Commissioner for Refugees during 10 years, and in my experience of those 10 years, there are very few cases where a country and a people have been so generous as Lebanon has been in relation to the Syrian refugees. With a heavy price in the Lebanese economy, in the Lebanese society and because of the conflict in Syria, of the Lebanese security.
And I believe the international community has not done enough to support Lebanon, as to support Jordan, as to support other countries in the world that have opened their borders, their doors and their hearts to refugees, when unfortunately, some much richer and much more powerful close their own borders.
And so, the example of Lebanon is an example that creates a responsibility to the international community to fully support Lebanon in overcoming the difficulties that Lebanon is facing at the present moment.
And so, I told the President that I have come with one simple message: The United Nations stands in solidarity with the people of Lebanon.
During my visit, I will meet a wide range of political, religious and civil society leaders, including women and youth.
And my objective is to discuss how we can best support the Lebanese people to overcome the current economic and financial crisis and to promote peace, stability and sustainable development.
I urge the country’s politicians to work together to resolve this crisis. And I call on the international community to strengthen its support to Lebanon.
Just an example, our humanitarian response plan is only 11 percent funded. We need stronger solidarity from the international community.
But the Lebanese people also expect their political leaders to restore the economy, provide a functioning government and state institutions, end corruption and safeguard human rights.
And what was said here by His Excellency the President comes exactly in this direction.
Seeing the suffering of the people of Lebanon, Lebanese political leaders do not have the right to be divided and paralyze the country.
And I recognize the President of the Lebanese Republic as the symbol of that necessary unity.
Next year’s elections will be key. And Lebanon’s people must be fully engaged in choosing how the country moves forward.
Women and young people must have every opportunity to play their full part as Lebanon strives to overcome its many challenges and lays the foundation for a better future.
And the United Nations will support Lebanon on every step of this journey.
As part of our commitment to Lebanon’s stability, I will visit UNIFIL in southern Lebanon.
Commitment to the full implementation of Resolution 1701 and maintaining the cessation of hostilities across the Blue Line and decreasing tensions between the parties is crucial, and avoiding all violations is essential.
I take this opportunity to salute the thousands of women and men peacekeepers who are far from their families and countries serving peace in Lebanon.
And I also like to stress the continued international support to the Lebanese army that is more necessary than ever, as well as to other state security institutions that are essential for the stability of Lebanon.
I encourage all Member States to increase their support and to fully assume their responsibilities.
Lebanon is facing a very difficult moment, but this is a wonderful country with a wonderful people.
I urge the Lebanese leaders to deserve their people and I urge the international community to correspond to the generosity of the Lebanese people.
*****
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/165988-transcript-un-secretary-general-remarks-media-after-meeting-he-mr-michel-aoun-president




Date: 19 December 2021
Title: PRESS CONFERENCE WITH UN SECRETARY-GENERAL : LEBANON
Content: 19 December 2021
Members of the media are kindly requested to:
The Press Conference will be broadcast Live on UN Lebanon Facebook Page at (https://www.facebook.com/UNLebanon ).
The press conference will be in English. However, live interpretation from/to English/Arabic will be provided.
IMPORTANT: Members of the media wishing to take part in this press conference are kindly requested to confirm their attendance by 18:00 Hours, Monday 20 December 2021, by contacting the below persons:
- Ms. Nadine Abi Zeid Daou, National Information Officer, Tel: +961-76-348486, email: daou@un.org
- Ms. Hala El-Feghaly, Public Information Assistant, Tel: +961-70-118990, email: hala.alfeghali@un.org
Follow the UN Secretary-General on Twitter and Instagram at @antonioguterres

* * *
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/165948-press-conference-un-secretary-general-lebanon




Date: 19 December 2021
Title: UN SECRETARY-GENERAL VISITS PORT OF BEIRUT
Content: 19 December 2021
The media is invited for a photo opportunity and for filming. There will be no press stakeout.
Members of the media are kindly requested to:
Follow the UN Secretary-General on Twitter and Instagram at @antonioguterres

*********
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/165947-un-secretary-general-visits-port-beirut




Date: 17 December 2021
Title: At least one million children in danger of violence as crisis intensifies in Lebanon – UN
Content: 17 December 2021
Findings released as the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General on Violence Against Children visits Lebanon
‘Violent beginnings: Children growing up in Lebanon’s crisis’ report also details that around 1.8 million children (more than 80 per cent) are now experiencing multidimensional poverty – up from around 900,000 in 2019 - and risk being forced into abuses such as child labour or child marriage to help their families make ends meet.
The report is released as the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General on Violence Against Children visits Lebanon.
“Lebanon’s crisis threatens the present and the future of millions of children. Ensuring their protection from abuse, harm, and violence and safeguarding their rights are needed more than ever”, emphasized the Special Representative of the Secretary General (SRSG) on Violence against Children, Dr. Najat Maalla M’jid.
Lebanon is reeling from the impact of national financial and political turmoil, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the aftermath of the August 2020 Beirut Port explosions.
The report shows that the number of cases of child abuse and exploitation handled by UNICEF and partners shot up by almost half (44 per cent) between October 2020 and October 2021, from 3,913 to 5,621 cases.  It also outlines a series of growing threats to children’s safety:
“Investing in children’s protection, development and wellbeing cannot wait. Investing in children is essential for building an inclusive, peaceful, just and resilient society that keeps children safe from harm and leaves no one behind”, added the SRSG on Violence against Children.
“Children’s safety and wellbeing are intricately connected to every pillar of a well-functioning society,” said Yukie Mokuo, UNICEF Lebanon Representative. “It takes a village - food, housing, healthcare, regular schooling, thriving families and functioning social services and institutions - to help children grow up free from harm. When society begins to crumble, children are left extremely vulnerable to abuse, violence and exploitation.”
The United Nations in Lebanon is working on protecting children from violence, abuse, and exploitation by reducing poverty; revising laws and policies; improving access to social welfare services, education and healthcare; and working with the Government to strengthen protection services. In parallel, extensive efforts are being made to address the social norms that normalise violence against children and make it culturally accepted.
“We must not fail the children of Lebanon. They are the future of Lebanon, the country’s hope,” said United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Ms. Najat Rochdi. “The shocking figures of children subject to abuse and exploitation, and deprived of their basic rights, must be reversed. No children in Lebanon, irrespective of their nationality, should be deprived of their basic rights to health, food, education, and protection. They must be at the forefront of the Government’s recovery plans, policies and practice,” she asserted.
The UN is calling for a cohesive national response to prioritize the protection of children, involving a range of Government departments, UN agencies, civil society organizations, academics, and faith-based leaders.  Urgent support is also required from donors to safeguard vital programming for the most vulnerable children.
Hyperlink to full report and multimedia content
For media queries please contact:
UNICEF Lebanon:
Blanche Baz, T : +961 3331874, E: bbaz@unicef.org
Maya Outayek, T: +961 70190634, E: moutayek@unicef.org
Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Violence against Children:
Miguel Caldeira, T : +1 917 367 6132, E : caldeira1@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/165763-least-one-million-children-danger-violence-crisis-intensifies-lebanon-%E2%80%93-un




Date: 16 December 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General Trip Announcement - Lebanon
Content: 16 December 2021
At this challenging time for Lebanon, this will be a visit of solidarity during which the Secretary-General will reaffirm the support of the entire UN family – from our political teams and peacekeepers to our humanitarian aid workers and development professionals – for the country and its people.
The Secretary-General will meet with Government officials, including President Michel Aoun, Speaker Nabih Berri, and Prime Minister Najib Mikati, as well as a number of religious leaders and civil society representatives.
He will pay tribute to the victims of the Beirut Port blast and will also undertake field visits to interact with people impacted by the numerous crises the country has been facing.
Finally, the Secretary-General will travel to southern Lebanon to visit the UN Interim Force in Lebanon and tour parts of the Blue Line.
The Secretary-General will depart Lebanon on 22 December.
******

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/165545-un-secretary-general-trip-announcement-lebanon




Date: 03 December 2021
Title: UNICEF and ILO in partnership with the European Union launch a new national disability allowance to provide cash support to people with disabilities living in Lebanon
Content: 03 December 2021
On this year’s International Day of Persons with Disabilities, UNICEF and ILO partnered with the European Union to strengthen the national social protection system and launch a new national disability allowance that will provide direct income support to people with disabilities living in Lebanon.
Our initiative aims to reach around 20,000 people with disabilities, including Lebanese and non-Lebanese alike, provided that they be identified from existing databases as well as future applications across the country. Monthly cash grants will be provided directly to recipients in USD. As a new national social assistance programme, it will be established in collaboration with the Ministry of Social Affairs as part of an expanding national package of social protection benefits.
“The European Union continues to support people in Lebanon, who are left behind in this prolonged crisis. Apart from support to maintaining jobs in Lebanon, the European Union is leading on providing assistance to the most vulnerable people. The signing of this new project with UNICEF and ILO, is a testament to our combined commitment on safeguarding the life and future of all those in need. We call for the adoption of the Social Protection Strategy to allow people with vulnerabilities, disabilities, and other forms of special needs to have a fighting chance in life, and we count on the commitment of the government of Lebanon for speedy reforms; the road to recovery begins with those who are in most and urgent need” – said Alessia SQUARCELLA; Deputy Head of Cooperation at the European Union Delegation to Lebanon.
UNICEF and ILO have been leading technical support to the Government of Lebanon and national stakeholders to develop the National Social Protection Strategy. To advance the strategy’s implementation rapidly, several key gaps need to be filled. As yet, no social assistance exists in Lebanon to address lifecycle vulnerabilities. As a result, UNICEF and ILO’s Social Grant programme lays out the foundations for an inclusive social protection floor in Lebanon in line with the national Reform, Recovery & Reconstruction Framework.
“Today, the pathway out of Lebanon’s dire situation and beyond requires an urgent scale-up of social assistance and an overhaul of its social protection system to ensure that future generations are not lost to a cycle of intergenerational vulnerability and poverty,” said Yukie Mokuo UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. The most pressing action at this stage is immediate protection for the most vulnerable and, with the support of the European Union, UNICEF and the ILO are working with the Ministry of Social Affairs to put in place a new programme for people with disabilities alongside UNICEF’s Child Grant programme already in place, known as Haddi”.
“Promoting an equitable social protection system in Lebanon that is accessible to all across their lifecycle is critical to address the implications of the current crisis. The road to recovery and growth largely depends on early investments in providing basic income security to the population. Social assistance programs such as the National Disability Allowance and Social Pensions can provide such guarantees to those that urgently needs them” said ILO Regional Director for Arab States Ruba Jaradat.
At a time when Lebanon is facing an ongoing and worsening economic crisis, reforming and developing the national social protection system within the framework of a National Social Protection Strategy, is a necessity. It is also very urgent to scale-up social assistance and to address the glaring gaps in the system. The two initiatives of Haddi and the national Disability Allowance, as well as building the foundations of a social pension, are necessary and urgent steps in that direction, not only targeting the poorest households but also those individuals facing various vulnerabilities in childhood, working age, and old age.
**********
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children and young people in Lebanon, please visit www.unicef.org/Lebanon.
Follow UNICEF on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Youtube
About the ILO
The International Labour Organization is the United Nations agency for the world of work. We bring together governments, employers and workers to drive a human-centred approach to the future of work through employment creation, rights at work, social protection and social dialogue. For more information on how the ILO works to advance social justice and promote decent work in the Arab States region, please visit https://www.ilo.org/beirut/lang--en/
Follow the ILO Regional Office for Arab States on Twitter and Facebook

For media queries, please contact:
Blanche Baz, UNICEF Lebanon: bbaz@unicef.org +961 3 331 874
Maya Outayek, UNICEF lebanon: +961 70 190634 moutayek@unicef.org
Salwa Kanaana, ILO Regional Office for Arab States: kanaana@ilo.org +961 71 505958
Tatiana Hosny, European Union Delegation to Lebanon: Tatiana.HOSNY@eeas.europa.eu +961 1956917
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/161791-unicef-and-ilo-partnership-european-union-launch-new-national-disability-allowance-provide




Date: 01 December 2021
Title: Warning! Fraudulent Message
Content: 01 December 2021
The UN has no association with this center. We strongly discourage the sharing of personal information with a third party and remind that humanitarian services are free of charge.
If in doubt about the authenticity of a message related to migration, you may contact IOM, the UN agency for migration at iombeirut@iom.int for advice. We also encourage you to visit the official Embassy website of the country you are planning to migrate to.
If you are registered with UNHCR and have shared personal data with anyone you are suspicious of, or if someone asks you for money or favors in return for help, please contact UNHCR at 01-594250. All official messages from UNHCR are published on https://www.refugees-lebanon.org/.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/161796-warning-fraudulent-message




Date: 24 November 2021
Title: THE UNITED NATIONS, THE SEXUAL AND GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE TASKFORCE AND THE NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR LEBANESE WOMEN LAUNCH A 16-DAY CAMPAIGN AGAINST GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE
Content: 24 November 2021
According to the latest estimates, nearly 1 in 3 women aged 15 years and older, around the world have been subjected to physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner, non-partner, or both, at least once in their lifetime[1]. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated all the risk factors that increase violence against women and girls, while reinforcing many of the root causes such as gender stereotypes and harmful social norms. As examples, findings from 2021 indicate that online sexual harassment and blackmailing of women nearly doubled during the COVID-19 lockdown in Lebanon. The Internal Security Forces have reported “a clear and significant increase of domestic violence incidents”, during the COVID-19 lockdown.
This year, the United Nations system in Lebanon, the SGBV TF and the NCLW are implementing a campaign that aims to serve as a call to action to address the increased risks of gender-based violence. Articulated around the theme, Women, girls and marginalized groups at increased risks of Gender-based violence (GBV) in the context of Lebanon’s multiple crises. Let’s act now!  it focuses on the impact of the current compounded crises on women and girls and how these in turn increase risks of gender-based violence.
The campaign will be raising awareness on the struggle of women and girls in these challenging times and seeks to draw attention to how the crises have increased the risk of GBV (domestic violence, sexual exploitation, sexual harassment), and deepened gendered vulnerabilities including issues related to period poverty to the deterioration of the mental health and wellbeing of women and girls.
“Unequal power relationships are the premise and prelude to Gender Based Violence. The compounding crises facing Lebanon have only added new layers to that social and societal phenomenon. 
It is up to us all to bring about a definitive change through inclusion, equality and justice.”, said Mrs. Claudine Aoun, President of the National Commission for Lebanese Women.
“Today and every day, we stand in full solidarity with all the women who are victims of violence,” said Ms. Joanna Wronecka, the UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon. “Violence in all its forms is unacceptable. Through this 16-days campaign, we are not only committing to the elimination and prevention of violence against women and to supporting the victims, we also commit to empowering women. Feeling safe at home, at work and in any public space is every woman’s right.  This must be reinforced with the proper legislation, enforcement and inclusion of women in the decisions that impact their lives,” the Special Coordinator added.
The campaign (25 November - 10 December) will include a social media campaign which will run for 16 days, with the #EndViolenceTogether  #مع_بعض_ضد_العنف hashtags aims at drawing attention to the needs of women, girls in all their diversities.  Responding to gender-based violence is a shared responsibility and everyone can contribute by raising awareness on the issue, by promoting a culture of equality and by calling out and condemning episodes of violence. National institutions and humanitarian actors are more than ever responsible to provide assistance to survivors of violence. To do so they need to rely on predictable, multi-year funding that ensure availability and quality of protection, health and social services.
The campaign will include a video and social media posts calling for the commitment of state institutions in the adoption of specialized and comprehensive laws and policies that prevent and protect women and girls from GBV. Increasing collective efforts are needed in ending gender-based violence including from national institutions and policy makers, the humanitarian and the development system, the donors, the community leaders, all women, men, girls.
An enabling environment should be created to support women and girls’ participation in the social, economic, cultural and political life of the country and eliminate the barriers for them to fully enjoy their rights. Policy makers need to ensure that the needs of women and girls, in all their diversities are prioritized while developing strategies and reforms. They also need to ensure that survivors can access the justice system and perpetrators are consistently hold accountable.
“Ending all forms of violence against women and girls is a priority for all of us. The horrifying surge of violence reported against them as a result of the COVID19 pandemic and the unfolding economic crisis, must be reversed and must end now,” commented Najat Rochdi, United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident & Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon. “Efforts to date have been considerable, yet more needs to be done to break down the multi-faceted barriers faced by women and girls at home where they should be the safest, in society where they should be thriving and in politics where they should have equal power. Today, I reiterate my appeal to put an end to sexual and gender-based violence, to shift the stereotypes and attitudes that shame women survivors and excuse the perpetrators, and to actively engage men in this important fight. Only together can we put an end to this horrendous act and move forward towards a better and stronger Lebanon”, she added.
The international campaign 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence originates from the 1991 first Women's Global Leadership Institute and raises awareness and increases momentum toward ending violence against women and girls worldwide. The United Nations Secretary General, through the UNiTE to End Violence against Women Campaign, supports the 16 Days of Activism under the global 2021’s theme “Orange the world: End violence against women now! Building on the momentum created during the Generation Equality Forum is crucial as the shadow pandemic, the gender-based violence pandemic, has not ended and there is no vaccine against it.
[1]  World Health Organization, on behalf of the United Nations Inter-Agency Working Group on Violence Against Women Estimation and Data (VAW-IAWGED), Violence Against Women Prevalence Estimates, 2018 (Geneva, 2021).
********
The United Nations system in Lebanon comprises 23 agencies, funds and programmes as well as a peacekeeping mission, a political mission and a regional commission that cover a broad spectrum of peacekeeping, political, development, human rights and humanitarian work in Lebanon. The United Nations supports Lebanon to promote the country’s long-term peace and security, development and human rights priorities.
The National Commission for Lebanese women (NCLW) is an official institution established by law at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in 1998 with the aim of promoting the status of women and ensuring equal opportunities for women and men.  Its General Assembly is composed of personalities who are known for their activities related to women's affairs and is chaired by the woman delegated by the President of the Republic.
The Commission carries out advisory functions at the Presidency of the Government and public administrations and institutions, as well as liaison and coordination functions with various administrations, institutions, public, community and civic organizations and Arab and international organizations. The Commission also performs various operational functions, including the formulation of strategies and plans.
The Sexual and Gender-Based Violence Taskforce (SGBV TF) comprises UN agencies and national and international NGOs dedicated to carry out SGBV activities in Lebanon both at the national and regional level alongside MOSA and other relevant government authorities. It aims at supporting a comprehensive and coordinated approach to SGBV, including prevention, care and support, and efforts to allow survivors to access justice. The SGBV Task Force also prioritizes life-saving activities and gap-filling as well as enhancing predictable and effective prevention, risk mitigation and response. The SGBV Task Force contributes to a shared vision and integrated strategies among humanitarian stakeholders to better address SGBV trough a survivor-centered and rights-based approach.

Media Contacts:
For more information:
Roula Rached, UN Women, phone number: + 961 70351088
Micheline Elias Massaad, NCLW, phone number: + 961 3 452570
Erica Talentino, SGBV TF, phone number: +96176482273
Lisa Abou Khaled, SGBV TF, phone number: +96171880070
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/160061-united-nations-sexual-and-gender-based-violence-taskforce-and-national-commission-lebanese




Date: 16 November 2021
Title: Third Consultative Group Meeting on the Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework: Press Release & Co-Chairs Statement
Content: 16 November 2021

The 3RF Consultative Group consists of the Government of Lebanon, Lebanese civil society, the European Union, United Nations, the World Bank and international donors. Together they monitor progress and give strategic direction to the reforms and activities under the 3RF.
The 3RF Consultative Group members discussed progress achieved so far and next steps in four main sectors: the anti-corruption sector; the Build Beirut Businesses Back Better (B5) programme; the social protection sector; and the housing sector. Below are the co-chairs’ statement of the third 3RF Consultative Group meeting and list of attendees.
The 3RF report and the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on the 3RF can be found here.
*********************
3RF Third Consultative Group Meeting: Co-Chairs' Statement
The participants’ list is attached to this summary.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/158802-third-consultative-group-meeting-reform-recovery-and-reconstruction-framework-press-release




Date: 12 November 2021
Title: Statement by Dr Najat Rochdi, UN Resident &Humanitarian Coordinator: Provision of fuel to maintain critical health and WASH services in Lebanon
Content: 12 November 2021
“This exceptional fuel distribution to healthcare and water facilities across Lebanon has been ensuring provision of critical health, water and sanitation services to the most vulnerable populations affected by the ongoing energy crisis and preserve lifesaving humanitarian activities in all districts” said Dr Najat Rochdi, United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon.
The development of this fuel delivery plan has been covering all Lebanese Governorates, allowing the most vulnerable people affected by the crisis in Lebanon to continue getting access to functioning health services and to safe drinking water. More than 300 water pumping stations have been provided with fuel, lessening most vulnerable families’ dependence towards more expensive alternatives such as bottled or trucked water tankers.
Over the past weeks, the emergency fuel supply has been guaranteeing uninterrupted health activities to those most in need. The provision of emergency fuel has allowed 24 public hospitals to remain open, supporting more than 887 functional hospital beds, including care for COVID-19 patients. In parallel, the National AIDS Programme / National Tuberculosis Programme, as well as 138 Primary Health Care Centres (PHCCs), have been able to maintain essential health services to serve the most vulnerable at a critical period of unprecedented rise of demand. This emergency plan has also ensured the uninterrupted operation of 12 cold chain sites to safeguard storage of routine and COVID-19 vaccines and medications for catastrophic illness such as cancer therapy.
“I sincerely thank the leadership of the World Food Programme (WFP) in Lebanon working hand in hand with the Health and WASH sectors in handling the logistics of fuel operations as part of the UN coordinated Emergency Response Plan (ERP)” stressed Dr Rochdi. This US$383 million humanitarian plan has been launched three months ago to deliver crucial life-saving humanitarian assistance to most vulnerable Lebanese and migrants affected by the crisis in Lebanon, in complement to the humanitarian activities already implemented under the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan and UNRWA programs.
Dr Rochdi also sincerely thanks donors to OCHA-managed Lebanon Humanitarian Fund (LHF) and the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) pooled funding mechanism for their generous contributions to financing critical elements of the collective fuel distribution. The rapid mobilization of these financial resources has enabled the humanitarian community to act swiftly in response to critical humanitarian needs.
The unsolved energy crisis in Lebanon unfortunately continues to jeopardize basic health and water services supply across Lebanon, threatening the life of thousands of families in Lebanon. “I call on the Government of Lebanon to take its responsibility in ensuring that families in Lebanon have unhindered access to essential services and in implementing necessary measures to sustainably address the on-going energy crisis” Dr Rochdi said.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/158187-statement-dr-najat-rochdi-un-resident-humanitarian-coordinator-provision-fuel-maintain




Date: 12 November 2021
Title: Lebanon: UN poverty expert says Government fails population
Content: 12 November 2021
“Lebanon is not a failed State yet, but it is a failing State, with a government failing its population,” the UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, Olivier De Schutter, said at the end of a 12-day visit to the country. “It was once considered a beacon of inspiration in the region, with high levels of human development and capacity.
“The destruction of the Lebanese lira has devastated lives and impoverished millions,” said De Schutter. “The Government’s inaction in the face of this unprecedented crisis has inflicted great misery on the population, especially on children, women, stateless and undocumented individuals, and people with disabilities who were already marginalized."
The UN expert said the “manufactured crisis” has ruined the lives of the population and condemned many to poverty for generations. “While the population is trying to survive day-to-day, the Government wastes precious time evading accountability and scapegoating refugees from the comfort of their offices,” he said.
“Inequality has remained at unacceptable levels for years in Lebanon. Even before the crisis, the richest 10 percent received five times more income than the bottom 50 percent. This outrageous level of inequality is furthered by a tax system that rewards the banking sector, encourages tax evasion and concentrates wealth in the hands of the few. In the meantime, the population is subject to regressive taxes that hit the poorest most. This is a human-made disaster that was long in the making.
“Worryingly, political leadership seems unwilling to see the relationship between tax reform and poverty alleviation and underestimates the benefits of social protection systems for rebuilding the economy, especially in times of crisis. Unfortunately, I heard no credible poverty alleviation plan from the Government that does not rely on international donors and non-governmental organizations.
De Schutter said dependence on international aid is not sustainable and in fact it weakens State institutions. “During my visit, I met with people who depend on international and non-governmental organizations for their daily survival, young children whose sole dream is to leave the country as soon as possible, women who withstand domestic abuse and cut their meals to protect their children, and young adults with no life prospects,” he said.
“These people need credible solutions today, and I am deeply concerned that the Government is not taking their plight seriously.”
It is well-known that Lebanon has high levels of debt but, on their own, high debt-to-GDP ratios do not lead to a debt crisis, the UN expert said. “The question is what political leaders spent the resources on. For decades, Lebanon ignored the need for social policies, including strong welfare programmes and public service infrastructure, and instead focused on unproductive sectors like banking, continuously expanding public debt and devoting those resources to debt servicing,” De Schutter said.
“The dereliction of responsibility at top levels of political leadership is astonishing. While I met with dedicated officials at lower levels of Government, I was shocked by the disconnect between the political establishment and the reality of those in poverty on the ground.
“Children are forced to leave school and work in unsafe conditions, refugees and Lebanese in both urban and rural areas lack access to safe drinking water and electricity, and public hospital and school staff are now impoverished and leaving the country.”
Lebanon lacks a comprehensive welfare system that would have cushioned the effects of the crisis and the majority of the population was left unprotected when the crisis began. “The Government must prioritize developing strong universal social protection floors, including unemployment insurance, child benefits, old-age and disability pensions, and sickness and maternity or paternity benefits, all of which would have protected workers during COVID-19 lockdowns,” the expert said.
“Lebanon has an opportunity to rethink its economic model. Continuing to incentivize a failed model based on rentierism, inequality, and sectarianism will only sink the population further into destitution. Until a credible plan is proposed for how to transform the economy, address inequality, ensure tax justice, and prevent further political stalemates, the international community will not take its reforms seriously.
“The entanglement of political elites with the banking sector remains deeply worrisome. The Government must lead by example and publicly disclose all income, shares, and financial interests, and dedicate resources to real accountability mechanisms. Only with serious transparency will the international community believe the Government’s commitments to reform.
“The donor community is running out of patience with the Lebanese Government. After losing US$240 million to the scam of arbitrary and unfavorable exchange rates, they need to see that the Government is serious about transparency and accountability, and a rights-based approach can guide Government’s efforts in this process.”
The Special Rapporteur visited Beirut, Tripoli, the Akkar region, and the Bekaa valley between 1 and 12 November. He met with Prime Minister Mikati as well as with eight cabinet ministers, the Governor of the Central Bank and the Speaker of Parliament, after speaking with people affected by poverty, civil society organizations, the donor community and UN agencies, as well as municipalities.
**********
Photos from the Special Rapporteur’s visit to Lebanon are available for journalists’ use at https://bit.ly/pictLEBhd
Mr. Olivier De Schutter was appointed as the UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights by the UN Human Rights Council on 1st May 2020. The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
For more information and media requests, please contact Junko Tadaki (+41 22 917 9298/ junko.tadaki@un.org) and Isabelle Delforge (+32/498522163 isabelle.delforge@srpoverty.org or media@srpoverty.org)
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Renato de Souza (+41 22 928 9855 / rrosariodesouza@ohchr.org).
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/158228-lebanon-un-poverty-expert-says-government-fails-population




Date: 08 November 2021
Title: UN and Ministry of Interior Chair Elections Forum in Beirut
Content: 08 November 2021
Held at the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities in Beirut, the “Elections Forum” brought together representatives of the Lebanese government, civil society and the diplomatic community, including the UN.
“I welcome the Government’s commitment to engaging jointly on the topic, as we share an interest in elections being held in accordance with the Lebanese Constitution, as a pillar of democracy, and in fulfilment of the aspirations of the Lebanese people,” the Special Coordinator said in her opening remarks.
The discussions highlighted the importance of cooperation between different stakeholders for a successful elections process, including through the activation and reinforcement of the Supervisory Commission for Elections (SCE), active participation of civil society, and meaningful inclusion of women.
“While it is primarily incumbent on Lebanon to ensure the elections take place in accordance with the Constitution and the electoral law, we are here today to see how we, as the international community, can best support Lebanon,” the Special Coordinator added.
Underlining the importance of bold and profound reforms for Lebanon, the Special Coordinator said the 2022 elections were critical to the success of the reform agenda and for rebuilding trust with the Lebanese citizens.
The Special Coordinator looked forward to future meetings of the Forum in continuation of the dialogue between the Government, domestic stakeholders and the international community in support of the electoral process.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/157392-un-and-ministry-interior-chair-elections-forum-beirut




Date: 29 October 2021
Title: UN human rights expert to visit Lebanon to assess poverty
Content: 29 October 2021
“Lebanon is going through one of the worst economic crises in world history,” said De Schutter, an independent expert appointed by the Human Rights Council to monitor, report, and advise on poverty and its intersection with human rights.
“According to one estimate, in just two years, multidimensional poverty has doubled from 42% to 82%, with nearly four million people facing deprivation in education, healthcare, public utilities, housing, assets, or employment and income,” he said.
“Poverty is intertwined with the compounding monetary, debt, energy, and political crises Lebanon is facing, and I will be looking closely at how the Government is addressing the impact on people’s lives.”
De Schutter said he plans to examine how the Lebanese government is tracking poverty, and the adequacy of the social protection system, as well as the role of international donors and organizations.
This is only the second visit by a Special Rapporteur to Lebanon in the past decade and it represents an important step in the Government’s engagement with the UN human rights system.
The UN poverty expert will travel to Beirut, Tripoli, rural communities in Akkar, and the Bekaa Valley. He will meet government officials at the national and local levels and individuals and communities affected by poverty, as well as international organizations, activists, academics, donors, and civil society organizations. He has published a preliminary schedule of his visit, including information on events open to press.
The visit of the Special Rapporteur is grounded in extensive input and research in advance of the mission, including a review of publicly available information, more than 30 advance consultations, and some 20 written submissions from people affected by poverty, civil society, international organizations, and others.
The Special Rapporteur will share his preliminary conclusions and recommendations at a press conference at the end of his mission on 12 November 2021 at 11:30 am local time. The press conference will be held in person and livestreamed. Details will be sent in advance to journalists and available on the Special Rapporteur’s website.
His final report on Lebanon will be presented to the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva in June 2022.
***********
Mr. Olivier De Schutter was appointed as the UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights by the UN Human Rights Council on 1st May 2020. The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
For more information and media requests, please contact Jessy Chahine (E-mail: jessy.chahine@un.org; Phone: +961 70 119 102) and Isabelle Delforge (+32/498522163 isabelle.delforge@srpoverty.org or media@srpoverty.org)
Follow the Special Rapporteur on Twitter at @DeSchutterO and @srpoverty
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts, please contact Renato Rosario De Souza (renato.rosariodesouza@un.org) or Jeremy Laurence (+ 41 79 444 7578 / jeremy.laurence@un.org).
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/156330-un-human-rights-expert-visit-lebanon-assess-poverty




Date: 28 October 2021
Title: IOM organizes a Regional Dialogue Workshop on Challenges and Opportunities of Counter-Trafficking Responses
Content: 28 October 2021
Amman – On the 12th of October, 2021, the UN Migration Agency (IOM) in Jordan organized a Regional Dialogue on “Counter-trafficking Response in the Levant region: challenges and opportunities”, under the patronage of the Minister of Justice of Jordan, H.E Dr. Ahmad Nouri Ziadat, and with the support of the U.S. Department of State’s Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons (J/TIP) within the framework of IOM’s project “Preventing Conflict-Driven Trafficking in Persons (TIP) and Ensuring a Protection-Sensitive Approach Across the Levant (ATIP-LEVANT)”.
The two-day regional dialogue brought together experts, policymakers, and practitioners from governments, as well as civil society, academia, UN agencies and other partners working to respond to trafficking in persons in humanitarian contexts.
Participants had the opportunity to share information about existing initiatives to implement Objectives 10 of the Global Compact on Migration across the globe including in the Levant region focusing to Prevent, combat and eradicate trafficking in persons in the context of international migration. Progress and challenges in implementing the regional framework SOPs were discussed. The aim was to strengthen cooperation between counter-trafficking and humanitarian actors to better identify and protect victims of trafficking and identify gaps in responses and reflect on the range of actions, resources, and partnerships required to further reinforce the prevention of the crime as well as the identification, referral, and assistance of victims of trafficking in the Levant region.
“This dialogue is an opportunity to exchange experiences with countries from the region and discuss ways forward to cooperate in fighting this crime” stated H.E Dr. Saad Allouzi Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice in Jordan.
“The U.S. Department of State funded and supported this IOM program because we believe each of us should do what we can to stop traffickers and protect victims,” stated by the U.S. Embassy Senior Refugee Coordinator, Mr. Robert McInturff.
“Jordan and the world are facing many challenges, but we continue to work together and fight trafficking in persons.” said Tajma Kurt, Chief of Mission of IOM Jordan “Today, I have the honor and pleasure to initiate this important dialogue.  For many years, IOM has worked closely and collaboratively with the Government of Jordan’s Ministry of Justice – a regional pioneer in combating trafficking in persons- this dialogue represents only one pillar in a longstanding and fruitful partnership.”
“Strengthening prevention and protection efforts requires an all-hands-on-deck approach. It needs a whole-of-government approach to ensure cooperation across all sectors of government; a whole-of-society approach to promote multi-stakeholder partnerships, and international collaboration”, emphasized Mr Mathieu Luciano, Head of Office of IOM Lebanon.
The event concluded with series of recommendations that aim at creating an enabling environment to prevent human trafficking, rescue and restore human dignity of victims.
This action was made possible thanks to the IOM teams in Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey and with the support of the Migrants Protection and Assistance Senior Regional Thematic Specialist in Cairo, the regional office in Vienna as well as IOM Migrants Protection and Assistance department in Headquarter.
For more information, please contact Ms. Dima Haddad – Project Officer – ATIP Levant Regional Project – IOM Lebanon at dihaddad@iom.int.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/156338-iom-organizes-regional-dialogue-workshop-challenges-and-opportunities-counter-trafficking




Date: 22 October 2021
Title: UN-Habitat launches new regional project to increase the resilience of displaced persons and host communities in Lebanon & Jordan in addressing climate change-related water challenges
Content: 22 October 2021
The project of nearly USD 14 million, entitled “Resilient Water Solutions Against Climate Change in Jordan and Lebanon” which is funded by the Adaptation Fund, will run for four years. It is implemented in partnership with the governments of Lebanon and Jordan, through their ministries of environment as well as local authorities, civil society and private sector.
“Lebanon is facing water scarcity due to many challenges – Including unplanned urban expansion that infringes on green and agricultural spaces, as well as, the absence of planning and outdated infrastructure. This project comes at a time when Lebanon is experiencing a severe economic and social crisis. The activities of this project will provide farmers, local authorities, and all those working in the fields of agriculture and water in the central Bekaa area with knowledge on sustainable water management techniques that could support income generation,” said Nasser Yassine, Lebanese Minister of Environment.
In Lebanon, the city of Zahle and the wider Bekaa region was selected as the project’s target location due to recurrent droughts, extreme heat and a shift in rainfall patterns have recently become major concerns for these areas. Over the past ten years, the region has witnessed a significant influx of displaced persons. This has placed additional pressure on pre-existing water scarcity and an under-developed water and wastewater infrastructure.
“UN-Habitat works to support cities and urban areas to adapt by building resilience and reducing the impact of climate change, creating new economic opportunities and improving the ability to live in safe and just environments,” said Dr. Erfan Ali, Regional Representative of Arab States, UN-Habitat
The launch of this project comes after an inception workshop, with the participation of the ministers of environment from Jordan and Lebanon, and who will chair respective national project steering committees, and other key stakeholders, in order to outline and endorse the project’s work-plan and implementation process.
“We need to take bolder steps to confront the challenge of climate change and focus on the importance of resilience and adaptation - what the Secretary-General called the forgotten half of the climate change equation without which we have no hope of achieving our common climate goals,” said Dr. Mounir Thabet, Deputy Executive Secretary, UN ESCWA
“In Lebanon, UN-Habitat has a strong relationship with local authorities and communities in the Bekaa region thanks to previously implemented projects including the UN-Habitat and UNICEF’s Neighbourhood Profiling initiative. The findings of the profiles have been instrumental in outlining pre-existing water sustainability challenges and needs in neighbourhoods throughout the region,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
The overall aim of this project is to better respond to climate change impacts and vulnerabilities in the context of the Syrian crisis in Jordan and Lebanon. This will be done by demonstrating what concrete adaptation measures respond to the needs of both displaced persons and host communities – especially women and youth – while mitigating any tensions over natural resources and employment opportunities.
***
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
For media enquiries:
Layal Abou Antoun, UN-Habitat Lebanon; T: +961 1 978398   M: +961 3 078 558     Email: layal.abouantoun@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/152717-un-habitat-launches-new-regional-project-increase-resilience-displaced-persons-and-host




Date: 19 October 2021
Title: Statement of the UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon on Women’s Representation in Politics
Content: 19 October 2021
Women’s representation in politics is critical for an effective and well-functioning democracy, and ensures that those in elected leadership are more representative of the people they serve. The discussion of a gender quota in the Lebanese Parliament is in line with Lebanon’s commitment to the implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325, as articulated in the 2019-2022 National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security.
“The women of Lebanon represent a pool of leadership and legitimacy. The United Nations welcomes efforts to expand special measures for women, such as quotas, and to support Lebanese women’s participation in political life.’ she said.
The Special Coordinator reiterated the importance of holding elections on time.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/152211-statement-un-special-coordinator-lebanon-women%E2%80%99s-representation-politics




Date: 14 October 2021
Title: Statement of the UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon on Today’s Developments
Content: 14 October 2021
Condemning the use of armed violence outside of state authority, Ms. Joanna Wronecka underscored the need for restraint, for maintaining calm and stability and ensuring the protection of civilians.
Noting the dangerous increase in polarization in the context of the Beirut port explosion investigation, the Special Coordinator underscored the utmost responsibility of Lebanon’s leaders to place the interests of the country first at this critical juncture.
“Lifting Lebanon out of its current crisis and moving forward on reforms requires the efficient functioning of the state’s legislative, executive and judicial institutions” she said.
“Now is the time for all sides to support judicial independence in the interest of the people,” she added.
The Special Coordinator reiterated the UN’s unwavering support for Lebanon and its people.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/151623-statement-un-special-coordinator-lebanon-today%E2%80%99s-developments




Date: 29 September 2021
Title: UN: Syrian Refugees in Lebanon Struggle to Survive Amid Worst Socio-economic Crisis in Decades
Content: 29 September 2021

Lebanon’s compounded socio-economic and health crisis has hit the most vulnerable Lebanese and refugee families the hardest. The preliminary findings of the 2021 Vulnerability Assessment of Syrian Refugees in Lebanon (VASyR), released today, reveal a dire situation, with nine out of ten Syrian refugees still living in extreme poverty.
In 2021, the vast majority of refugees continued to resort to negative coping strategies to survive, such as begging, borrowing money, not sending their children to school, reducing health expenses or not paying rent. The survey indicates that, in 2021, more family members took poorly paid jobs, high-risk jobs or extra shifts to make the same income the household made in 2020. These coping strategies negatively affect resilience and the capacity to generate income in the future, making refugee families more vulnerable to food insecurity and more dependent on humanitarian assistance.
“Over the last 18 months, the Lebanese currency lost more than 85 per cent of its value. Prices have skyrocketed, and mere survival has become out of reach for Syrian refugee families. The crisis will have a long-term impact on refugees’ well-being and the future of their children and is threatening past gains such as access to essential services,” stressed Ayaki Ito, UNHCR Representative in the country. “Lebanese families are struggling too. Stronger support for Lebanese, refugees, and other vulnerable communities is urgently needed at this most critical juncture. We cannot fail them now,” he added.
Finding a dignified and safe shelter continues to be a struggle, with almost 60 per cent of Syrian refugee families living in a dangerous, substandard, or overcrowded shelters. The study shows an increase in the average rent in all shelter types and in all governorates, and an increase in the risk of eviction.
Inflation impacted food prices significantly. Between October 2019 and June 2021, the cost of food increased by 404 per cent, resulting in worrisome food insecurity levels among Syrian refugee families. In June 2021, 49 percent of Syrian refugee families were food insecure. About two-thirds of the families had to limit food portion sizes or reduce the number of meals consumed per day.
“This has been a tough year for everyone in Lebanon. We have seen food prices slip out of reach for many families,” said Abdallah AlWardat, WFP Representative and Country Director in Lebanon. Thanks to generous support from our donors, WFP is helping more than 1.1 million Syrian refugees and 600,000 Lebanese nationals every month. We’re providing cash assistance and food parcels and also organizing activities to support and protect people’s livelihoods.”
When it comes to basic hygiene, two out of ten refugee families did not have access to basic baby care items, and one out of ten did not have access to female hygiene items.
Syrian refugee children are bearing the brunt of the crisis. Thirty percent of children in school age (ages 6-17) have never been to school. Primary school attendance for children between 6 and 14 years old dropped by 25% in 2021. In addition, the upward trend in child labor among Syrian children continued in 2021, with at least 27,825 Syrian refugee children currently engaged in child labour. The survey also highlights that one out of five girls between the ages of 15 and 19 years were married. More than half (56%) of children aged between 1 and 14 have experienced at least one form of violent discipline.
“The escalating crisis in Lebanon is putting the most vulnerable children at risk, including refugees, as more and more families are being forced to resort to negative coping measures, including sending their children to work in often dangerous and hazardous conditions, marrying off their young daughters or using violent discipline,” said UNICEF Representative in Lebanon Yukie Mokuo. “UNICEF is expanding its programme to support more children and families as children’s well-being and safeguard must be a top priority to ensure their rights are met under any circumstance”.
While VASyR looks at vulnerabilities and poverty levels among Syrian refugees in particular, Lebanese host communities are also struggling to cope. All three UN agencies continue to work together with government and partners to provide much needed lifesaving support to all vulnerable communities, including Lebanese and refugees.
[2] The SMEB (Survival Minimum Expenditure Basket) is used to define extreme poverty at the household level for refugees in Lebanon. It is calculated based on prices observed for a range of basic goods and services considered as needed for survival. Families with expenditures estimated to be less than the SMEB are living in extreme poverty.
-END-

Notes for Editors
About VASyR
The Vulnerability Assessment of Syrian Refugees in Lebanon (VASyR) was conducted jointly by UNHCR, WFP, and UNICEF. VASyR 2021 is the ninth version of the annual survey. The full report will be published in December 2021.
The VASyR 2021 preliminary findings provide insights on the impact of the compounded crises on Syrian refugee households. In 2021, there has been a further deterioration in the socio-economic situation in Lebanon, coupled with inflation and increased devaluation of the LBP, with the informal exchange rate at some point reaching over LBP 20,000 per USD. More issues have emerged in 2021, including shortages in fuel, electricity, and medication.
The situation in Lebanon has affected all populations living in the country - Lebanese, refugees, migrants and others - with the most vulnerable communities being hit the hardest. While VASyR specifically looks at the Syrian refugee population, UNHCR, WFP and UNICEF are working with the Lebanese authorities and other organizations to analyze the impact of the situation on vulnerable Lebanese, and all three agencies continue providing lifesaving assistance to vulnerable Lebanese communities to help them cope with the challenging situation.
Between June and July 2021, VASyR survey teams visited a nationally representative sample of 5,035 Syrian refugee households, covering all districts across Lebanon.
UNHCR, WFP and UNICEF partnered with Caritas, Makhzoumi Foundation, World Vision International and SHIELD to collect the data at the field level.
About UNHCR
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is a global organization dedicated to saving lives, protecting rights and building a better future for refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people. UNHCR works closely with the Government of Lebanon and numerous other national and international partners in providing protection and assistance to refugees and stateless persons, as well as Lebanese communities.
For more information about UNHCR’s work in Lebanon, please visit: https://www.unhcr.org/lb/
About WFP
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate and the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change. In Lebanon, WFP in close collaboration with its partners is the largest provider of direct food and non-food assistance to refugees and vulnerable Lebanese communities.
About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/
Media contacts:
UNICEF
Blanche Baz, +961 3 331874, bbaz@unicef.org
Maya Outayek, +96170190634, moutayek@unief.org
UNHCR
Lisa Abou Khaled, +961 71880070, aboukhal@unhcr.org
Paula Barrachina Esteban, +961 81 312 087, +34 675 51 35 44, barrachi@unhcr.org
WFP
Rasha Abou Dargham, +961 76320761, rasha.aboudargham@wfp.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/146440-un-syrian-refugees-lebanon-struggle-survive-amid-worst-socio-economic-crisis-decades




Date: 23 September 2021
Title: Statement by UN Deputy Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Najat Rochdi on the provision of fuel to maintain critical health and WASH services
Content: 23 September 2021
The severe electricity and fuel shortages which have been affecting Lebanon over the past weeks, are impeding the provision of essential services, including health care and water, and has resulted in tremendous additional hardship across all populations. The fuel shortage has also posed additional operational challenges to the humanitarian community assisting the country’s most vulnerable populations.
“In order to mitigate additional suffering and preventing loss of lives, I have asked the World Food Programme (WFP) in Lebanon, as the global humanitarian lead on logistics, to develop an emergency fuel-supply plan to maintain critical health, water and sanitation services for the most vulnerable populations and prevent the discontinuation of lifesaving activities implemented by humanitarian actors,” said Ms Najat Rochdi, United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon.
This three-month plan, developed in collaboration with UNICEF, WHO and the NGOs working on health and WASH issues, will provide fuel to all public hospitals, primary health care centers and dispensaries servicing the most vulnerable communities in the different regions in Lebanon and relied upon by an estimated 2.1 million annually. It will also provide fuel to four water establishments to secure continuous water supply to about 2.3 million people across the country.
“The implementation of this emergency fuel supply plan will not impact existing national fuel reserves, nor will the program interrupt future national fuel deliveries” clarified Dr Rodchi. “All fuel will be purchased at a non-subsidized rate and add to the existing national fuel stocks” she stressed.
This is an exceptional emergency support for a maximum duration of three months. The responsibility to ensure uninterrupted provision of basic services remains with the Government of Lebanon. “I call on the government to save no effort to implement, at the earliest possible, sustainable solutions to the on-going energy crisis and to protect the rights of families in Lebanon to access essential services” Dr Rodchi said.
This exceptional intervention is part of the broader UN coordinated Emergency Response Plan launched in early August with a financial ask of US$383 million, to provide critical life-saving humanitarian assistance to most vulnerable Lebanese and migrants affected by the ongoing crises. It complements and supports humanitarian assistance provided through UNRWA programs as well as the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan for Syrian refugees and their host communities.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/145704-statement-un-deputy-special-coordinator-lebanon-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-najat




Date: 10 September 2021
Title: UN Women Statement in Response to Women’s Representation in New Lebanese Cabinet
Content: 10 September 2021
We congratulate Ambassador Najla Riachi on her appointment as Minister of State for Administrative reform, however her being the only woman in the cabinet is of great concern. This marks a decrease from thirty percent women in cabinet appointed in 2019 to a disappointing four percent. This mirrors the strikingly low level of women’s representation across political and public office in the country, with women currently occupying less than five percent of parliamentary seats and making up less than six percent municipal councilors.
There is no shortage of female leaders and experts across the range of fields in Lebanon. Moreover, with women playing leading roles in relief efforts in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Beirut port explosion, and the economic crisis, they deserve to be represented in the decisions made on the country’s future. Equally, their engagement is fundamental for the advancement and recovery of the country.
Women’s rights activists have fought for their rights and have made important progress. These hard-won gains should not be reversed or rolled back in the face of crisis.
UN Women calls on the newly formed cabinet to take into consideration that inclusivity and equitable participation are at the heart of good governance. We will continue to support and empower women in Lebanon in their struggle for representation, equal rights and basic services.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/143875-un-women-statement-response-women%E2%80%99s-representation-new-lebanese-cabinet




Date: 06 September 2021
Title: The Lebanon Humanitarian Fund allocates US$6 million to respond to the fuel crisis in Lebanon
Content: 06 September 2021
Beirut, 6 September 2021 – The United Nation’s Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Najat Rochdi, announced a US$6 million allocation from the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund (LHF) to ensure the continuation of critical health care services affected by the ongoing fuel crisis in the country. This will complement a $4 million allocation from the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) in support of water services as announced last week by the Emergency Relief Coordinator.
The announcement came as severe electricity and fuel shortages have been affecting Lebanon, threathening essential services such as health care and water provision, and putting hundred thousands families on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe.
The new LHF reserve allocation aims to facilitate access to fuel for critical life saving health service providers, including 246 Primary Health Care centers, 554 dispensaries and 65 hospitals, to continue to operate over the next three months. A central warehouse and distribution sites at district level used to maintain cold chain and safe storage of essential health commodities, such as vaccines and other temperature-sensitive critical medicines, will also be supported. The fuel will be directly distributed to the facilities.
“The ongoing fuel crisis has brought additional hardship to the vulnerable populations who have already been suffering from the severe consequences of the compounded crises in the country. With generous contributions from the donors, and as a complement to the CERF allocation, the LHF will provide exceptional time-bound humanitarian support to ensure continuation of  critical health services in the country for a maximum of three months”, said Dr. Najat Rochdi, the Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon. “The intervention is a one-off emergency support, which will not be extended beyond a maximum duration of three months. The responsibility to ensure uninterrupted provision of basic services including health care and water delivery remains with the Government of Lebanon. All efforts should be expanded to implement sustainable solutions to the on-going energy crisis  the earliest possible” added Dr. Rochdi.
The LHF supported interventions are part of the 2021- 2022 Emergency Response Plan for Lebanon (ERP) – a time-bound humanitarian plan aiming to address the immediate humanitarian needs of the most vulnerable populations affected by the ongoing crisis.
The LHF is a Country-based Pooled Fund led by the Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon and managed by OCHA. Initiated in 2014, the Fund supports the strategic delivery of timely, accountable and effective humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable people in Lebanon.
The LHF allocation complements a $4 million allocation from the CERF, which was announced by the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Martin Griffiths, during his visit to Lebanon on 31 August 2021. The CERF funding aims to facilitate access to fuel for water establishments servicing 2.3 million people across Lebanon.
*********
For more information, please contact:
Helena Mazarro, Deputy Head of OCHA Lebanon Office, mazarro@un.org
Ai Odoriba, Associate Humanitarian Affairs Officer, ai.odoriba@un.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/143249-lebanon-humanitarian-fund-allocates-us6-million-respond-fuel-crisis-lebanon




Date: 20 August 2021
Title: Statement of the International Support Group for Lebanon meeting on 20 August 2021
Content: 20 August 2021
This tragic incident occurred in the context of acute fuel shortages now affecting Lebanon, with severe repercussions for essential services, including electricity provision, public health, public water supply, as well as businesses and livelihoods.
This fast-accelerating crisis underscores the utmost urgency of forming a government capable of taking the situation in hand, meeting the immediate needs of the people of Lebanon, initiating the needed reforms, and paving the way for international support.  The ISG calls on all parties to work towards this end without any further delay.
The ISG continues to stand by Lebanon and its people.

Note to Editors
The International Support Group has brought together the United Nations and the governments of China, France, Germany, Italy, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, together with the European Union and the Arab League.  It was launched in September 2013 by the UN Secretary-General with former President Michel Sleiman to help mobilize support and assistance for Lebanon’s stability, sovereignty and state institutions.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/140974-statement-international-support-group-lebanon-meeting-20-august-2021




Date: 17 August 2021
Title: Statement by the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon: Fuel crisis jeopardizes health and water systems in Lebanon; Reliable fuel and electricity supply urgently needed to avoid catastrophe
Content: 17 August 2021
“I am deeply concerned about the impact of the fuel crisis on access to health care and water supply for millions of people in Lebanon,” said Ms. Najat Rochdi, United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon. “A bad situation only stands to get worse unless an instant solution is found.”
The largest hospitals in Lebanon have already reduced their activities due to fuel and electricity shortages. Meanwhile, public water supply and wastewater treatment systems that are heavily reliant on fuel, have drastically reduced operations all over Lebanon, leaving millions of people without access to public water and jeopardizing the environmental and public health.
As a result of the deteriorating socio-economic situation in the country, the health system is facing significant threats of limited liquidity, medication shortages and emigration of medical staff. Hundreds of health care workers have left the country while essential medications, such as chronic diseases treatments and antibiotics, are unavailable. With Lebanon facing another wave of COVID-19 cases, the current fuel crisis has the potential to worsen the health situation. Continued shortages may compromise the delivery of lifesaving treatments. Reports suggest that Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds for COVID-19 are already a quarter full, with most patients relying on ventilators. An interruption of electricity would hence jeopardize their eventual recovery.
Meanwhile, Beirut and Mount Lebanon water authorities suffered a weeklong shutdown due to power cuts while their counterparts in the North and the South faced depleted fuel stocks and growing social tensions and insecurity. Electricité du Liban (EDL) has halted main power service lines to Water Establishments which affect the lives of approximately 4 million people in the country. In parallel, water authorities are confronted with limited availability and affordability of water supply consumables such as chlorine and spare parts for pumping stations. Overall, water shortages raise the risk of increased infection rates and disease outbreaks. Livelihoods, agricultural damage and food insecurity may also follow unless a solution is found.
Prioritizing restored power supply from EDL is critical to maintain lifeline services for the people, such as health and water systems. Fuel shortages will further disrupt the delivery of any humanitarian assistance. “The risks are simply too great,” warned Ms. Rochdi. “All stakeholders must work together to find a sustainable and equitable solution that serves the needs of all and protects the health and safety of communities,” she added.
Ms. Rochdi also notes that humanitarian partners, including UN agencies, stand ready to provide assistance to affected populations across Lebanon.
*************
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/140333-statement-united-nations-humanitarian-coordinator-lebanon-fuel-crisis-jeopardizes-health-and




Date: 06 August 2021
Title: UN and NGOs launch $378.5M Emergency Response Plan to support the most vulnerable people in Lebanon
Content: 06 August 2021
The Plan, costed at US$378.5 million, complements UNRWA programmes and the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan (LCRP) to Syrian and Palestine refugees, and the communities hosting them.
Lebanon is grappling with an economic and financial meltdown, COVID-19, and the disastrous human impact of the Beirut Port explosions one year ago, as well as the impact of the Syrian crisis.
The 12-month emergency plan was developed under the leadership of the Humanitarian Coordinator and the Humanitarian Country Team in Lebanon with support of the UN’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). It is published following the International Conference for Support of the Lebanese People chaired by France and the United Nations on 4 August 2021, coinciding with the anniversary of the Beirut Port explosions that killed nearly 200 people and injured some 6,500 people.
“Lebanon is facing a serious deterioration of the humanitarian situation. During the conference, the participants have renewed their collective support to address the critical needs of the most vulnerable among the crisis-affected Lebanese and migrants through direct assistance to women, children and men who desperately need our help, while urging for lasting solutions to stop the collapse of the Country”, said Ms. Najat Rochdi, the UN Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon.
The ERP is a humanitarian, time-bound plan to save lives and assist people in need. It also aims at mitigating tensions among and between Lebanon’s various communities.
The ERP aims to link up with, and prepare for, solutions addressing the root causes of the crisis. Such a solution must come from structural reforms and Government-led development interventions, including the implementation of a comprehensive and inclusive social protection strategy.
The UN and the humanitarian community will continue to provide support to the most vulnerable in Lebanon until an inclusive social protection system is in place.
The ERP is available online: https://bit.ly/3fz4V8Q

For more information, please contact:
Helena Mazarro, OCHA Lebanon, mazarro@un.org
Jens Laerke, OCHA Geneva, +41 79 472 9750, laerke@un.org

*****
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/139092-un-and-ngos-launch-3785m-emergency-response-plan-support-most-vulnerable-people-lebanon




Date: 05 August 2021
Title: US$25 million Grant to Build Beirut Businesses Back and Better
Content: 05 August 2021
The B5 Fund, which was signed today, had been previously endorsed on April 29, 2021 by the Partnership Council of the Lebanon Financing Facility (LFF), a multi-donor trust fund established in December 2020 following the launch of the Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework (3RF) to pool grant resources and strengthen the coherence and coordination of financing in support of the immediate socio-economic recovery of vulnerable people and businesses impacted by the Port of Beirut explosion.
The Port of Beirut explosion, which came on the heels of an ongoing economic and financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic, had a severe impact on the productive sector in Lebanon.
The blast caused substantial physical damage and loss of stock and inventory to approximately 10,000 privately owned businesses located within a 5 km radius of the explosion site. It significantly affected firms’ productivity and revenue generation and lead to substantial layoffs and bankruptcies.
According to a World Bank rapid firm-level survey conducted during November and December 2020, around 17% of firms were confirmed or assumed to be permanently closed; 79% of firms experienced reduced sales (on average, a 69% decline); and 61% of firms had decreased the number of permanent workers by 43% on average.
Furthermore, the survey revealed that almost half of all surveyed firms (46%)—both in Beirut and elsewhere—have been affected by the explosion either directly or indirectly. The affected businesses across a number of sectors, specifically MSMEs, are struggling to finance their reconstruction and recovery needs, and find it extremely difficult to resume service delivery, unless they receive urgent financial assistance.
The explosion also exposed the fragility of the financial sector (banking, insurance, and microfinance) Access to finance has severely deteriorated. With very limited policy responses by Lebanese authorities to support the recovery of the financial sector, firms affected by the explosion, specifically MSMEs, are struggling to finance their reconstruction and recovery needs.
“The B5 is the urgent first step to extending lifeline support to businesses and ensuring their sustainability considering the multiple crises affecting the country,” said Saroj Kumar Jha, World Bank Mashreq Regional Director. “Thanks to the financial support of Canada, Denmark, the European Union, France and Germany, the B5 today kick-starts the implementation of much needed priority projects planned under the LFF that will provide the Lebanese people with immediate socio-economic relief, help micro, small- and medium-sized enterprises to recover and prepare for reform and reconstruction to put Lebanon on a sustainable recovery path.”
The B5 Fund will provide grants to approximately 4,300 MSEs to cover expenses related to working capital, technical services, equipment, and repairs. Around 30% of the selected MSEs will be women-owned or led that will benefit from financial and technical assistance to help them build back better. Efforts will also be made to identify and support entrepreneurs and businesses who directly or indirectly suffer from a disability as a result from the blast.
The B5 Fund will also support the operational expenses of up to 5 MFIs serving micro and small businesses, low-income populations, and the informal sector at large to help them stand by the communities they serve during the time of multiple crises and stabilize their activities until broader growth can resume.
The B5 Fund is designed to disburse in a transparent and timely manner, directly through specialized and tested institutions. The Fund will be implemented by Kafalat SAL, that currently manages the World Bank-funded Supporting Innovation in Small and Medium Enterprises (iSME) Project. Under the B5 Fund, Kafalat will be responsible for the overall implementation, management, selection of intermediaries, monitoring and evaluation, with functions, staffing and responsibilities satisfactory to the World Bank and LFF donors.
The B5 Fund will adopt a zoning approach whereby eligible beneficiaries will be prioritized based on their proximity to the explosion site. The Fund adopts a simple design that permits the deployment of grants in a timely and cost-efficient manner to businesses, particularly vulnerable ones. Disbursement to grantees will be conditional on the completion of a screening done by MFIs and Kafalat to confirm their damage status based on initial asessments conducted by the Lebanese Armed Forces directly following the blast, ensuring that the same expense is not financed more than once from different sources.
A Third Party Monitoring Agent (TPMA) will be hired at the LFF level to independently verify and confirm that the criteria, selection process, assessment and use of funds are in compliance with the Project Operations Manual.  Furthermore, the LFF Independent Oversight Body will also monitor fund activities.
The B5 Fund is scalable and agile by design. Based on its successful implementation, additional funds from the LFF could expand its scope to benefit more Lebanese MSEs and MFIs.
Generous pledges and contributions to date from the governments of Canada, Denmark, France and Germany and from the EU totaling US$62.68 million will allow the Lebanon Financing Facility to channel international support to Lebanon to address its multiple crises. While the international community is working together to address the socio-economic recovery needs of the people of Lebanon, more donors are invited to come forward in support of the 3RF priorities under the umbrella of the LFF.
About the Lebanon Financing Facility (LFF):
Established in December 2020 in the aftermath of the August 4 Port of Beirut explosion disaster and following the launch of the Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework (3RF), the LFF is a 5 year multi-donor trust fund that will pool grant resources and strengthen the coherence and coordination of financing in support of the immediate socio-economic recovery of vulnerable people and businesses impacted by the explosion.
To date, the LFF has received contributions and pledges from the governments of Canada, Denmark, France and Germany and from the EU. Subject to the commitment of all Lebanese stakeholders to critical reforms, the LFF will build the foundation for medium-term recovery and the sustainable reconstruction of the Port of Beirut and affected neighborhoods. The LFF prioritizes three focus areas of interventions: 1) Socioeconomic and business recovery; 2) Preparing for reform and reconstruction; and 3) Strengthening coordination, monitoring, accountability and oversight of the 3RF.
The LFF will benefit from the World Bank’s high fiduciary standards, through the application of its fiduciary framework for financial management, procurement, and environmental and social safeguards. The LLF will also ensure that programs promote gender equality and community engagement that target women, youth and vulnerable populations.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/139105-us25-million-grant-build-beirut-businesses-back-and-better




Date: 03 August 2021
Title: Statement of the international Support Group for Lebanon
Content: 03 August 2021
All members expressed their solidarity with the families of the victims, and with those whose lives and livelihoods have been affected.  It urged authorities to swiftly complete the investigation into the port explosions, so that the truth may be known and justice rendered.
The ISG observed with deep concern the accelerating economic deterioration that has severely affected all segments of Lebanese society, its institutions and services.  The ISG called upon Lebanese authorities, as a matter of national responsibility, to urgently take every possible step to improve the living conditions of the people of Lebanon.   Members welcomed the upcoming conference co-chaired by France and the United Nations to address the humanitarian needs of Lebanon’s most vulnerable people.
The ISG noted that one year has now passed without a government. Members took note of the designation of a new Prime Minister and called on leaders to support without delay the formation of an empowered new government that implements meaningful reforms. The Group recalled the importance of holding elections on time in order to safeguard a democratic Lebanon and to restore the trust and hope of its people.
Note to Editors
The International Support Group has brought together the United Nations and the governments of China, France, Germany, Italy, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, together with the European Union and the Arab League.  It was launched in September 2013 by the UN Secretary-General with former President Michel Sleiman to help mobilize support and assistance for Lebanon’s stability, sovereignty and state institutions.
Link to video footage: https://we.tl/t-g6zOXXX21F
Link to photos: https://bit.ly/3jaCRJG
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/138383-statement-international-support-group-lebanon




Date: 30 July 2021
Title: Awareness and Empowerment session organized in Lebanon on the occasion of the World Day against Trafficking in Persons
Content: 30 July 2021
This event took place on the 30th of July at Caritas Center in Achrafieh, Beirut. Caregivers were actively engaged in dialogue sessions that were facilitated by UNODC, Caritas and IOM. The event featured the risks of TiP on families and children, protective mechanisms from Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants criminal networks. Given that TiP is a form of violence against children, LAW conducted awareness session for caregivers on the right to identity and the importance of birth registration, both of which are critical for access of children to services, schools, health care and other rights and entitlements and to prevent them from being prone to violence, exploitation and abuse.
This event was also an opportunity to interact with children through recreational activities held at the Caritas school playground. Through COMPASS, a global project focusing on Cooperation on Migration and Partnership to Achieve Sustainable Solutions, implemented by IOM with support from Dutch government, dignity kits were distributed to all participants.
With the dramatic socio-economic situation that the country is facing, it is crucial for UNODC to address the risk of trafficking in person and smuggling of migrants. “Victims’ Voices Lead the Way” is the theme of UNODC work for this year stressing the importance of a victim-centered approach. Renee Sabbagh, UNODC Lebanon Head of Office, joined her voice to UNODC Executive Director, Ghada Waly: “Victims’ voices are key to preventing trafficking, supporting survivors, and bringing perpetrators to justice.”
The Caritas Lebanon Executive Director- Gilbert Zouein highlighted “the importance of prevention efforts and protection of victims, with special attention to be given to the application of non-punishment principle”. He added “Caritas Lebanon offers holistic services to victims regardless of their age, gender, race, ethnicity and religious beliefs”.
Organizations jointly highlighted the need to expand emergency relief programmes to address the immediate needs of vulnerable migrants and their children in Lebanon while providing them with access to more sustainable solutions, one of them being safe return and sustainable reintegration programs.
World Day against Trafficking in Persons was proclaimed in 2013 by the United Nations General Assembly, in its adopted resolution A/RES/68/192, on July 30. Such a day is necessary, as declared in the resolution, to “raise awareness of the situation of victims of human trafficking and for the promotion and protection of their rights.”

For more information, please contact Ms. Tala KHATIB – IOM Lebanon at talkhatib@iom.int and Ms. Mira KOBEISSI – UNODC Lebanon at mira.kobeissi@un.org and Ms. Rouba Dirani – Caritas Lebanon at rouba.dirani@caritas.org.lb.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/138294-awareness-and-empowerment-session-organized-lebanon-occasion-world-day-against-trafficking




Date: 29 July 2021
Title: Municipality of Beirut and UN-Habitat launch Mobile Health Clinic to support COVID-19 response
Content: 29 July 2021
With 95 per cent of reported COVID-19 cases in urban areas across the world, cities are on the frontline of the global public health crisis and in mitigating its socio-economic impact. The pandemic affects urban migrants and displaced persons differently. Language barriers, discrimination, stigma and informal employment all contribute to their restricted access to public health services and benefits.
“The mobile health clinic is an example of the multistakeholder engagement that we need to address the multiple ongoing crises facing Lebanon and Beirut. In order to ensure that Beirut recovers holistically from this difficult period Lebanon is passing through, we need the support of the local community, local and international non-governmental organizations and the wider international community,” said Judge Marwan Abboud, Governor of Beirut.
“This mobile health clinic will help us be better prepared to manage rises in COVID-19 cases whether from new strains such as, delta, or from community transmission. I extend my thanks to UN-Habitat and the Mayors Migration Council for supporting the Municipality of Beirut in the implementation of this initiative,” said Jamal Itani, Mayor of Beirut.
In Beirut, the mobile health clinic will be working on a rotational schedule at different locations in the neighbourhoods of Tariq El Jdide, Karm El-Zeytoun and others to be defined. To start, the clinic will provide free PCR testing and support in contact tracing while referring individuals concerned about other medical conditions to service providers who could be of support.
“UN-Habitat is delighted to collaborate on the launch of this mobile health clinic, through this critical and timely partnership with the Mayors Migration Council. This clinic will enable vital health services to reach those who need them most, with an initial focus on COVID-19, in dense and vulnerable urban neighbourhoods – helping the Municipality of Beirut achieve an inclusive pandemic response,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
“The Beirut Municipal Mobile Health Clinic will serve as not only a crucial lifeline to those who are struggling to survive the pandemic, but a symbol of hope that Beirut will soon provide for all who choose to call this city home despite the many challenges that it faces,” said Samer Saliba, Head of Practice of the Mayors Migration Council.
***
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.

About the Mayors Migration Council
The Mayors Migration Council (MMC) is a mayor-led advisory and advocacy organization that helps cities influence national and international policy on migration and displacement. The mission is to ensure that global responses to pressing challenges — from pandemics to climate change — both reflect and address realities on the ground for the benefit of migrants, displaced persons, and the communities that receive them.
The MMC is led by a Leadership Board composed of the mayors of Amman, Bristol, Freetown, Kampala, Los Angeles, Milan, Montreal, and Zürich, as well as the former mayor of Athens. The MMC operates with the financial support of Open Society Foundations, the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, and the Robert Bosch Stiftung, and is managed as a sponsored project of Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors, an independent 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that provides governance and operational infrastructure.

About the Global Cities Fund
Launched in partnership with the UN Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), the UN Migration Agency (IOM), the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), and United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG), the Mayors Migration Council’s Global Cities Fund for Inclusive Pandemic Response directly resources city governments to support migrants, refugees, and internally displaced people in municipal Covid-19 response and recovery efforts.
With nine city grantees and a pipeline of more than 20 city government-led projects, in less than a year the Global Cities Fund has established itself has an effective mechanism to help city governments address the immediate needs of their most marginalized residents, while supporting practices that have the potential of being institutionalized, replicated, and scaled in the future.
To build on the Global Cities Fund’s progress, the MMC and its partners call on international actors to drive additional investments to the unmet resource needs of city governments — meeting a joint commitment to support at least 22 by 2022.
To learn more and become a partner, contact fund@mayorsmigrationcouncil.org.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/139718-municipality-beirut-and-un-habitat-launch-mobile-health-clinic-support-covid-19-response




Date: 28 July 2021
Title: Second Consultative Group Meeting on the Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework
Content: 28 July 2021
The 3RF Consultative Group consists of the Government of Lebanon, Lebanese civil society, the European Union, United Nations, the World Bank and international donors. Together they monitor progress and give strategic direction to the reforms and activities under the 3RF.
Given the context of rapidly worsening socio-economic situation in Lebanon, Consultative Group members focused on next steps. Below is the co-chairs’ statement of the second 3RF Consultative Group meeting, which outlines the discussion and list of attendees.
The 3RF report and the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on the 3RF can be found here.
The Co-Chairs' Statement: Second Consultative Group Meeting of the Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework
Attendees at the 3RF second Consultative Group meeting:
Government of Lebanon
H.E. Dr Hassan Diab, Prime Minister
H.E. Zeina Akar, Deputy Prime Minister
H.E. Raoul Nehme, Minister of Economy and Trade
H.E. Ramzi Mcharafiyeh, Minister of Tourism and Social Affairs
H.E. Raymond Ghajar, Minister of Energy and Water
Mr Georges Adwan, Member of Parliament, Head of the Administration and Justice Committee
Mr Marwan Abboud, Governor of Beirut
Mr Antoine Choucair, General Director of the Lebanese Presidency
H.E. Gebran Soufan, Ambassador and Diplomatic Advisor to the Prime Minister
Mr Tony al-Hoyek, Advisor to the Deputy Prime Minister
Mr Haytham Sayyad, Advisor to the Governor of Beirut

United Nations
Ms Najat Rochdi, Deputy Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator
Ms Natalie Sarafian, Team Leader, Resident Coordinator Office

World Bank
Mr Saroj Kumar Jha, Regional Director of the Mashreq Department
Ms Mouna Couzi, Lebanon Finance Facility Programme Manager

Donors
H.E. Ralph Tarraf, Head of the Delegation of the European Union
H.E. Pierre Duquesne, Ambassador of France
H.E. Andreas Kindl, Ambassador of Germany
H.E. Nicoletta Bombardiere, Ambassador of Italy
H.E. José María Ferré, Ambassador of Spain
H.E. Hans Peter van der Woude, Ambassador of the Netherlands
H.E. Ian Collard, Ambassador of the United Kingdom
H.E. Dorothy Shea, Ambassador of the United States of America
Ms Maja Messmer Mokhtar, Chargée d’Affaires at the Embassy of Switzerland
Ms Mary Eileen Devitt, USAID Lebanon Mission Director
Mr Damien Sorrell, EIB Representative for Lebanon
Ms Gretchen Biery, Head of the Lebanon Office of the EBRD
Mr Khalil Dinguizli, incoming Head of the Lebanon Office of the EBRD
Mr Jamie Schnurr, Head of Development Cooperation at the Embassy of Canada
Mr Francois de Ricolfis, Head of the Regional Economic Section at the Embassy of France
Ms Alice Thomann, Deputy Head of Cooperation at the Embassy of Switzerland
Ms Roula Abbas, Programme Manager Civil Society at the Delegation of the European Union
Ms Estelle Akiki, Assistant to the Ambassador of Spain

Lebanese Civil Society
Anonymous speaker on behalf of victims of the 4 August explosion
Ms Asma Zain of the Lebanese League for Women in Business (LLWB)
Ms Sylvana Lakkis of the Lebanese Union of Persons with Physical Disabilities
Ms Zoya Rouhana of KAFA (Enough) Violence and Exploitation
Ms Ghada Jabbour of KAFA (Enough) Violence and Exploitation
Ms Mona Harb of Beirut Urban Lab
Ms Nada Zaarour of Green Mind
Ms Carine Tohme of the Lebanese Association for Taxpayers' Rights (ALDIC)
Ms Alia Farhat of the Lebanon Humanitarian & Development NGOs Forum (LHDF)
Mr Soman Moodley, Country Coordinator at the Lebanon Humanitarian INGO Forum (LHIF)
Ms Sophie Bloemeke, Research Assistant at Beirut Urban Lab

3RF Technical Team
Mr Christian de Clercq, UN Resident Coordinator’s Office
Mr Stephan Massing, World Bank Senior Strategy and Operations Officer
Mr Jose Luis Vinuesa-Santamaria, EU Delegation Head of Section
Mr Khalil Gebara of the 3RF Secretariat
Mr Jaap van Diggele of the 3RF Secretariat

3RF Independent Oversight Body (observers)
Mr Julien Courson of the Lebanese Transparency Association
Ms Diana Menhem of Kulluna Irada
Ms Reem el-Dana of Kulluna Irada
Ms Roula Mikael of the Maharat Foundation

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/137667-second-consultative-group-meeting-reform-recovery-and-reconstruction-framework




Date: 22 July 2021
Title: The UN hosts a virtual dialogue to inform ground-breaking UN Summit on the Future of Food in Lebanon
Content: 22 July 2021
The dialogue was held under the patronage of Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Ms. Najat Rochdi and Lebanese MP Ms. Inaya Ezzeddine, with the active participation of several UN agencies, funds, programmes and regional commissions operating in Lebanon, including the World Food Programme (WFP), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the UN Information Centre in Beirut (UNIC Beirut), the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) and the UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO).
Rochdi said that the Lebanese who have always been known for their rich hospitality and generosity, are today threatened by their basic right to food due to the continuous rise in commodity prices as a result of the successive crises in the country.
“People are unable to provide their basic food requirements and are substituting healthy meals with unhealthy cheaper options, threatening their food security all of which risk a rise in levels of hunger. The UN in Lebanon is working on building food resilience to vulnerabilities at the individual, community, and system levels. An improved food system prevents conflicts and is vital to achieving Goal 2 of the SDGs: Zero Hunger.” A change in the food systems would support the extremely poor, and the ones depending on agriculture for their livelihoods,” Rochdi added.
The Dialogue brought together around 80 participants for a lively and constructive discussion on how to make the food system in Lebanon safer, stronger, and more equitable. It included a diverse array of perspectives, including stakeholders of the Lebanese Food systems, women cooperatives, research centres, students from the faculties of agriculture and food sciences, smallholder farmers and business leaders.
“Food security is an outcome of the food system. Our duty is to ensure that the food system is resilient to ensure sustainable access to safe and healthy food to those who live in Lebanon and not only for a few,” said MP Inaya Ezzeddine.
“Numerous integrated intersected strategies should be put in place to achieve this goal, and they should all rest on the inalienable right of all, especially the most vulnerable including women and children, to a healthy affordable diet,” she added.
Four separate discussions were conducted during the dialogue revolving around three tracks: ensuring access to safe and nutritious food for all, advancing equitable livelihoods, and building resilience to vulnerabilities, shocks and stress and the role of youth in technology and innovation of the food systems.
Rami Zurayk, professor at the American University of Beirut who moderated the opening and closing sessions, highlighted the importance of focusing on the obstacles that affect the functioning of food systems such as conflicts, pandemics, socio-economic crises, and the absence of technology and scientific development.
Participants agreed on a number of ways that the food system in Lebanon can be strengthened, including: providing vouchers to farmers to buy agricultural inputs and increase production, developing and strengthening the skills of farmers and producers to use technology that can be more sustainable, and promoting low-cost entrepreneurship.
Maurice Saade, FAO Representative in Lebanon, urged all actors to join forces and implement recommendations to avoid an acute food security crisis in Lebanon.
The UN in Lebanon will now submit the outcomes of the Dialogue to the organizers of the UN Food Systems Summit. The information will be used by organizers to feed into the Summit’s five priority Action Tracks, as well as the preparatory work of its Scientific and Advisory Groups, Champions Network, and other Summit support structures.
*****
About the UN Food Systems Summit: In September 2021, UN Secretary-General António Guterres will convene a Food Systems Summit that will launch bold new actions to deliver progress on all 17 SDGs, each of which relies to some degree on healthier, more sustainable and equitable food systems. The Summit will awaken the world to the fact that we all must work together to transform the way the world produces, consumes and thinks about food. It is a summit for everyone everywhere – a people’s summit. It is also a solutions summit that will require everyone to take action to transform the world’s food systems. Independent Summit Dialogues are both an important avenue for citizen engagement and a key part of the Summit process.
For more information, visit https://www.un.org/en/food-systems-summit
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/138400-un-hosts-virtual-dialogue-inform-ground-breaking-un-summit-future-food-lebanon




Date: 17 June 2021
Title: UN-Habitat Executive Director, Ms. Maimunah Mohd Sharif advocates for holistic urban recovery for the cities of Beirut and across Lebanon during her first official visit to the nation
Content: 17 June 2021
Throughout her visit, she interacted with partners and donors supporting these efforts. Her visit aimed to promote and advocate for the necessity of factoring urban dynamics into crisis response and recovery efforts, particularly in support of the people of Lebanon, during these unprecedented times. A tangible evidence-base for the holistic reconstruction of Lebanon’s capital city, is the Beirut City Profile which was launched during Ms. Sharif’s visit.
“The need to continue to mobilize the international community to maintain its support and engagement to help Lebanon is paramount. Not only to ensure that the heart of Lebanon is restored, but to assist the people – Lebanese, refugees, and migrant communities – across the country, to overcome the harsh multiple and ongoing crises,” said Ms. Sharif.
During her meetings with Government officials, Ms. Sharif emphasized the importance of immediate and scaled up support to reinforce the capacities of local institutions and authorities in Lebanon – because of their front-line role in responding to the needs of the people. She further urged national and local urban development stakeholders, to place adequate and affordable housing at the centre of current and future recovery efforts across Lebanon. The already dire housing situation in the country has been further impacted because of the multiple crises in the country. This has left thousands – including Lebanese, migrant and refugee communities – at heightened risk of eviction, and even more at risk of downgrading their already sub-standard living conditions.
“The UN-Habitat Executive Director’s visit to Lebanon follows a visit she made to Iraq. As the two countries are facing complex challenges, there are some similarities that can be adopted in terms of response and recovery of the two nations – ensuring that efforts within each of these countries address their peoples’ respective needs” said Dr. Erfan Ali, UN-Habitat Regional Representative for Arab States
To help provide an evidence-base for the recovery of Beirut, Ms. Sharif launched UN-Habitat’s Beirut City Profile that offers a cross sectoral analysis across the urban realm of Lebanon’s capital city, including major challenges. It also sets forth holistic, people-centred recommendations on the way forward, through immediate, medium, and long-term solutions towards a green, inclusive resilient recovery of the city – at city, neighbourhood, and national level.
“UN-Habitat remains ready to support the Lebanese people and local authorities technically and operationally, in implementing future reforms that have an urban bearing. While concurrently continuing to support local authorities and communities across Lebanon through targeted urban interventions such as our work in rehabilitating the National HIV and TB Centre damaged by the Beirut Port explosion and our multisectoral urban upgrading project in Mina, Tripoli that we inaugurated during the visit of Ms. Sharif” said Ms. Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
***
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/131993-un-habitat-executive-director-ms-maimunah-mohd-sharif-advocates-holistic-urban-recovery




Date: 11 June 2021
Title: The United Nations in Lebanon Launches Fund to Support Women’s Rights Organizations to Enhance Women’s Participation in the Beirut Port Explosion Response and Recovery Process
Content: 11 June 2021
WPHF is a flexible and rapid financing tool supporting quality interventions to enhance the capacity of local women around the world to prevent conflict, respond to crises and emergencies, and seize key peacebuilding opportunities. Supported by the Government of Germany, the WPHF in Lebanon will provide funding to six local women’s rights organizations (details on the six organizations can be found below).
The Beirut Port explosion, on 4 August 2020, created significant immediate humanitarian needs and severe long-term consequences. A rapid gender assessment of the Beirut Port Explosion highlighted the large number of female headed households living in the explosion affected areas, and the large number of elderly women. It found that female headed households, elderly, refugees, disabled, LBQT women and migrant workers are particularly vulnerable to poverty and food insecurity as they have less resources to repurchase or replace damaged or destroyed belongings (including documentation), reconstruct damaged shelters (often rented), and buy food and essential items. The assessment recommended, among other things, increasing the meaningful participation of women and marginalized groups in the decision-making for the design, implementation, management and evaluation of national and international response and recovery efforts.
With the aim of strengthening small grassroots women’s organizations in Lebanon, the selection of the six women’s rights organizations focused on national and local women-led, women’s rights, feminist, or civil society organizations (CSOs) with a proven track record working with women and girls in their diversity, especially targeting small grassroots and local community organizations.
“Congratulations to the six women-led organizations that will carry out a challenging, yet a much-needed and powerful mission to bring about transformative change in Lebanon,” said Najat Rochdi, United Nations Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon.  “Women of Lebanon were at the forefront of the humanitarian and relief efforts in the aftermath of the tragic Beirut port explosions as well as other peace-making initiatives. Their leading role must be recognized and strengthened if we are to achieve a just and equitable recovery that leaves no one behind,” she added. “The WPH Fund in Lebanon is a sheer evidence of our continued commitment, along with our long-standing partners, to step up support for women’s leadership at all levels, particularly in places where decisions are required”.
Through the work of the selected organizations, the Fund will support women’s participation in the recovery process through a variety of approaches, including the improvement of public disaster management, creation of women’s committees and platforms for dialogue and discussions, as well as advocacy through social media, art and academia. The project activities are expected to begin in June 2021 and end by August 2022.
“Lebanese women have been playing remarkable roles in responding to the country’s many crises. They have been central to Lebanon’s protest movements, vital to the relief efforts that followed the Beirut blast, and have been leading numerous civil society groups. However, they still find themselves sidelined from many decision-making processes”, said His Excellency Andreas Kindl, Ambassador of Germany to Lebanon. “By joining forces with the Women’s Peace and Humanitarian Fund in Lebanon and the impressive finalist organizations, Germany hopes to support female activists and provide them with the tools needed to thrive.”
About the selected NGOs:
Seeds for Legal initiatives (SEEDS) is a Lebanese NGO that works with marginalized groups to raise awareness on Legal rights and advocate for legal reform. Their proposed project, “The Movement for Women’s Lives Matter” will launch a study on the extent to which recovery programs that received funding following the Beirut Explosion succeeded in promoting the participation of women in decision making processes. The results of the study and the forthcoming recommendations will ultimately serve to influence future recovery funds and ensure they are inclusive of women and girls, by raising awareness on the need for a gender inclusive approach in recovery efforts, defining the gaps in current practices and advocating for necessary policy change measures at the donor and CSO levels.
Haven for Artists (HFA) is a queer feminist arts NGO that works at the intersection of art and activism, campaigning and advocating for women’s and queer rights through arts, culture and creative spaces such as festivals, exhibitions and events. Their proposed project, “Raising voices of the marginalized majority” will offer participatory, political and cultural platforms to engage and amplify the voices of women and marginalized communities and enhance their political participation by creating spaces for cross-community dialogue, networking and long-term collaborations between women/ activists across three major cities in Lebanon.
Fe-Male is a feminist grassroots collective that works to reinforce the presence of young women and girls in leadership positions and achieve gender equality by amplifying the voices and presence of women and girls in the media space. Their project, “Beirut Blast: The Untold Stories of Women and Girls and their Role in Recovery,” aims to use traditional and social media spaces to amplify the voices of women and girls in Lebanon, document their contributions to peace building and recovery efforts in order to mobilize and advocate towards women’s inclusion in decision-making processes and national recovery plans. High quality documentation and content production related to women’s stories will be undertaken, alongside a media audit and capacity building workshop.
Auberge Beity is a Beirut-based NGO that focuses on sustainable social and economic development through capacity building and empowerment of local communities, especially of children, youth and women. Their project, “Women’s participation in disasters management accountability,” aims to enhance women’s participation in governance processes and peacebuilding among local communities and public service providers in two affected areas of the Beirut blast. The project has identified 3 groups of women to engage with, who were most affected or involved in the Beirut Blast including elderly women who live alone; women running their own businesses and/or heads of households; and women frontline activists who took on initiatives to save people’s lives and provide a helping hand and/ or conduct fundraising. It will empower women in local NGOs to meet community challenges and improve disaster management.
Madaniyat is a Lebanese NGO that works to create a fairer, more inclusive and democratic society in Lebanon, where politics is more accessible to women and youth. In partnership with Ondes, their project, “REVIVE | WOMEN (Women organized mobilization, empowerment and networking)” aims to address the current marginalization of women from participation in humanitarian action as well as in local decision making and planning of initiatives. Through the establishment of women’s committees, the project will empower and enable increased women’s representation and participation in formal and informal local planning, decision-making, and peacebuilding efforts undertaken by municipalities and other stakeholders.
Dar Al Amal is a Lebanese NGO that works to safeguard women and children’s rights, particularly those vulnerable and at risk of violence and exploitation. Their project, “Creating dialogue between vulnerable communities and service providers to promote gender sensitive interventions in areas affected by the Beirut Blast” aims to create and empower a women-led group to influence better access to services and create safe spaces for vulnerable women in Burj Hammoud and Sin El fil. A group of 50 women will participate in awareness raising sessions with the aim of selecting a core group of 10. The core group will be equipped with skills to map, assess the needs of their communities and establish a dialogue mechanism with service providers from the area.
***
About the WPHF:
The Women’s Peace & Humanitarian Fund (WPHF) is the only global financing mechanism dedicated exclusively to supporting women’s participation in peacebuilding and humanitarian action. WPHF is a flexible and rapid financing tool supporting quality interventions to enhance the capacity of local women to prevent conflict, respond to crises and emergencies, and seize key peacebuilding opportunities. WPHF is an innovative partnership between Member States, the UN, and civil society, with all stakeholders represented on its global Funding Board. UN Women provides secretariat support to WPHF and ensures coordination to implement the decisions of the Funding Board. WPHF donors currently include Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Estonia, European Union (Spotlight Initiative), Germany, Ireland, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. WPHF is actively supporting over 345 local women’s organizations across 22 of its 25 eligible countries and has mobilized a total of $58 Million USD for grassroots women’s rights and women-led organizations working in settings of conflict and humanitarian emergency.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/130827-united-nations-lebanon-launches-fund-support-women%E2%80%99s-rights-organizations-enhance-women%E2%80%99s




Date: 01 June 2021
Title: UN Special Coordinator Joanna Wronecka Arrives in Lebanon
Content: 01 June 2021
Ms. Wronecka will serve as the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General in Lebanon and Head of Mission of the United Nations Office of the Special Coordinator for Lebanon (UNSCOL).
“It is an honour to serve with the United Nations in Lebanon,” said Ms. Wronecka upon her arrival at Beirut airport. “I regret that the country is passing through this very challenging time and my thoughts are with all those who are struggling under the burden of the overlapping crises facing their country,” she added. “I will work with all partners in Lebanon and the international community, and with the broader UN family, to support Lebanon and its people to strengthen democratic peace, security, stability and socio-economic development.”
UN Secretary-General António Guterres announced the appointment of Ms. Wronecka (Poland) on 1 April. Ms. Wronecka brings over 25 years of experience in diplomacy, international security and Middle East affairs.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/129563-un-special-coordinator-joanna-wronecka-arrives-lebanon




Date: 01 June 2021
Title: Lebanon Sinking into One of the Most Severe Global Crises Episodes, amidst Deliberate Inaction
Content: 01 June 2021
In the face of colossal challenges, continuous policy inaction and the absence of a fully functioning executive authority threaten already dire socio-economic conditions and a fragile social peace with no clear turning point in the horizon.
The Spring 2021 edition of the LEM, “Lebanon Sinking: To the Top 3” presents recent economic developments and examines the country’s economic outlook and possible risks. For over a year and a half, Lebanon has been facing compounded challenges: its largest peace-time economic and financial crisis, COVID-19 and the Port of Beirut explosion.
As The Deliberate Depression (LEM - Fall 2020) already laid-out, policy responses by Lebanon’s leadership to these challenges have been highly inadequate. The inadequacy is less due to knowledge gaps and quality advice and more the result of: i) a lack of political consensus over effective policy initiatives; and ii) political consensus in defense of a bankrupt economic system, which benefited a few for so long. With a history of a prolonged civil war and multiple conflicts— Lebanon is identified by the World Bank as a Fragility, Conflict & Violence (FCV) State— there is growing wariness of potential triggers to social unrest.  The increasingly dire socio-economic conditions risk systemic national failings with regional and potentially global effects.
The World Bank estimates that in 2020 real GDP contracted by 20.3 percent, on the back of a 6.7 percent contraction in 2019. In fact, Lebanon’s GDP plummeted from close to US$55 billion in 2018 to an estimated US$33 billion in 2020, while GDP per capita fell by around 40 percent in dollar terms. Such a brutal contraction is usually associated with conflicts or wars. Monetary and financial conditions remain highly volatile; within the context of a multiple exchange rate system, the World Bank average exchange rate depreciated by 129 percent in 2020. The effect on prices have resulted in surging inflation, averaging 84.3 percent in 2020. Subject to extraordinarily high uncertainty, real GDP is projected to contract by a further 9.5 percent in 2021.
“Lebanon faces a dangerous depletion of resources, including human capital, and high skilled labor is increasingly likely to take up potential opportunities abroad, constituting a permanent social and economic loss for the country,” said Saroj Kumar Jha, World Bank Mashreq Regional Director. “Only a reform minded government, which embarks upon a credible path toward economic and financial recovery, while working closely with all stakeholders, can reverse further sinking of Lebanon and prevent more national fragmentation”.
Conditions in the financial sector continue to deteriorate, while a consensus among key stakeholders on the burden-sharing of losses has proved elusive. The burden of the ongoing adjustment/deleveraging in the financial sector is highly regressive, concentrated on smaller depositors, the bulk of the labor force and smaller businesses.
More than half the population is likely below the national poverty line, with the bulk of the labor force -paid in Lira- suffering from plummeting purchasing power. With the unemployment rate on the rise, an increasing share of households is facing difficulty in accessing basic services, including health care.
The LEM Spring 2021 also highlights in its Special Foci section two potential economic triggers that are under increased scrutiny, and which can have significant social implications.
The First Special Focus examines Lebanon’s foreign exchange (FX) subsidy for critical and essential imports, which presents a serious political and social challenge, and discusses when and how to remove it. The current FX subsidy is distortionary, expensive and regressive; its elimination and replacement with a more effective and efficient pro-poor targeted program would improve the balance of payments—meaningfully extend the time-till-exhaustion of remaining BdL reserves—while helping to cushion the impact on Lebanon’s poor. However, these would still be temporary, suboptimal solutions. Only a comprehensive and credible macroeconomic stabilization strategy can prevent the country from running out of reserves and being forced into a disorderly and highly disruptive exchange rate adjustment.
The Second Special Focus of the LEM discusses the impact of the crises on four basic public services: electricity, water supply, sanitation and education. The Deliberate Depression has further undermined already weak public services via two effects: (i) it has significantly increased poverty rates, with a higher number of households unable to afford private substitutables, and thus becoming more dependent on public services; and (ii) it has threatened the financial viability and basic operability of the sector by raising its costs and lowering its revenues. The delivery of essential public services is critical to the wellbeing of residents. The sharp deterioration in basic services would have long-term implications: mass migration, loss of learning, poor health outcomes, lack of adequate safety nets, among others. Permanent damage to human capital would be very hard to recover.  Perhaps this dimension of the Lebanese crisis makes the Lebanon episode unique compared to other global crises.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/129358-lebanon-sinking-one-most-severe-global-crises-episodes-amidst-deliberate-inaction




Date: 26 May 2021
Title: Economic Crisis, COVID-19 and Port Explosion Exacerbated Migrants Vulnerability in Lebanon, New IOM Assessment Reveals
Content: 26 May 2021
The findings of the assessment have also generated an urgent need to rapidly scale up voluntary return assistance services for those stranded migrants willing to return home.
IOM’s analysis shows that 50 per cent of the respondent migrants reported being unemployed, with the majority losing their jobs in the last quarter of 2020. Over 50 per cent of respondents also reported that they are unable to meet their food needs. Approximately half of all respondents stated that they have substandard and insecure accommodation with inadequate shelter structures, unaffordable rent, threat of imminent eviction, and damaged homes.
At least 20 per cent of respondents reported health problems, including chronic physical and mental health issues requiring continuous treatment. Respondents, however, also expressed higher awareness of health-care services available, particularly in relation to COVID-19, and better access to protective equipment since IOM’s 2020 baseline assessment.
The analysis also finds high willingness amongst half of the respondents to return to their home countries. In the past year, embassies have also witnessed a sharp rise in the number of migrants wishing to go back home, but with no means to do so.
Many have reported that they are being subjected to various forms of physical and psychological abuse including bullying, beating, sexual harassment and forced to work excessive hours, as well as denial of wages. Some female migrants even stated that they had no other choice but to resort to exploitative, dangerous, or illegal work to provide for their families.
“As the economic situation continues to deteriorate and employment opportunities remain limited, migrants’ vulnerability to exploitation and abuse is likely to increase”, said Mathieu Luciano, IOM Head of Office in Lebanon. “Humanitarian organizations are slowly expanding their emergency relief programmes to address the immediate needs of vulnerable migrants. However, more sustainable solutions to alleviate migrant suffering, such as voluntary return and reintegration assistance, remain a glaring gap”.
Some 1,061 migrants - both genders - living and/or working in Lebanon from different nationalities including Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Sudan and Sierra Leone were interviewed in Beirut and Mount Lebanon province. Male respondents were predominantly Bangladeshi or Sudanese nationals, while female respondents were mostly from Ethiopia, followed by Sierra Leone and Nigeria.
Funded by the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund (LHF), this assessment was conducted by IOM between October 2020 and February 2021. It predominantly focused on how different crises impacted migrant’s welfare in Lebanon including shelter, food, water and sanitation, health care, and employment. It seeks to inform humanitarian programming, as well as longer-term protection and assistance interventions targeting migrants in vulnerable situations in Lebanon.
“Clearly, and based on this worrying assessment, there is an urgent need to rapidly scale up voluntary return assistance services in Lebanon. Since the explosion on 4 August, IOM has been working with the Lebanese government to assist 460 migrants to return home. IOM continues to receive many requests from migrants, NGOs, and embassies, which far exceed the Organization’s available resources” added Mathieu Luciano. “IOM is seeking funding to scale up its voluntary return programme, which will provide migrants in need with the possibility to return home in a safe and dignified manner and, through reintegration support, with a chance to rebuild their lives.”
Check out the assessment here.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/128585-economic-crisis-covid-19-and-port-explosion-exacerbated-migrants-vulnerability-lebanon-new




Date: 25 May 2021
Title: UN Deputy Special Coordinator Najat Rochdi Briefs a Security Council Informal Expert Group on the situation of Women, Peace and Security in Lebanon
Content: 25 May 2021
“Without addressing gender equality and women’s rights issues in Lebanon, we will not be able to sustainably and genuinely address the current multi-faceted crisis that the country is facing,” Ms. Rochdi said. While women in Lebanon are at the forefront of many current initiatives aimed at making peace, gender inequality in Lebanon is uniquely intertwined with the political and social structures that contribute to the cyclical nature of crisis in the country, she added.
Noting how Lebanon’s unprecedented socio-economic crisis compounded by the COVID-19 lockdown and last year’s tragic Beirut Port explosions have further deepened gender inequalities, Ms. Rochdi insisted that any recovery efforts in Lebanon must be inclusive of women in order to be sustainable. Standing at 145 out of a total of 153 countries, Lebanon has one of the highest overall gender gaps in the world, and amongst the lowest rates of women’s political participation and labor market participation.
The meeting discussed the importance of strengthening the participation of women in peace, security, and political processes, including in Lebanon’s parliamentary and municipal elections in 2022, as part of broader efforts to consolidate peace and bring stability to Lebanon.
According to Ms. Rochdi, the adoption of Lebanon’s first National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security in September 2019 offered a ray of hope for increasing women’s participation in decision-making at all levels, including in the security and defense sectors and in conflict prevention and promotion of social cohesion, to contribute to sustainable peace in Lebanon. She also highlighted the prominent role played recently by women whether at the forefront of the popular protests and political movements or in local peacebuilding and mediation efforts.
Ms. Rochdi reiterated the UN’s repeated calls for the formation of a reform-oriented government in Lebanon to address the country’s urgent needs, including those related to women’s rights. “Lebanon needs a Government that is competent, empowered, and representative of its people – naturally, also women. The longer Lebanon is without a government, the deeper this crisis becomes,” Ms. Rochdi said.
********
About the UN Security Council’s Informal Expert Group on Women, Peace and Security:
In October 2015, the Security Council adopted resolution 2242 and called for an Informal Expert Group (IEG) on Women, Peace and Security (WPS). This mechanism is intended to enable the Security Council to receive more detailed and nuanced information and analysis related to WPS in specific countries affected by conflict and on how the UN is implementing its WPS mandate on the ground. The IEG began its work in 2016 and holds periodic meetings with the UN in several countries.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/127574-un-deputy-special-coordinator-najat-rochdi-briefs-security-council-informal-expert-group




Date: 21 May 2021
Title: World Bank Supports Small Scale Lebanese Farmers Reeling under the Pressure of Lebanon’s Multiple Crises
Content: 21 May 2021
The World Bank has approved the re-allocation of US$10 million under the existing Roads and Employment Project to support small-scale Lebanese farmers with agricultural inputs and animal feed to help them sustain their plant and animal production, and support their ability to contribute to food security. The program is expected to benefit around 26,700 small-scale farmers who have suffered from this year’s COVID-19-related planting and harvesting delays. It will also provide approximately 1 million animal vaccine doses to contribute to the annual livestock vaccination campaign.
Agriculture is seen as a critical sector for employment creation and poverty reduction in Lebanon, for both Lebanese people and Syrian refugees. The Lebanese agriculture sector has been severely affected by the recent economic and financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic.  The absence of credit facilities, the currency devaluation and the capital control measures hindering the payment of suppliers in the agriculture sector have severely impacted agriculture production given the country’s reliance on imports of agricultural inputs.
“Preserving and strengthening agricultural domestic production and value chains are not only critical to mitigate the short-term risk related to food security, but also to boost the local economy and create employment opportunities in the agriculture sector”, said Saroj Kumar Jha, World Bank Mashreq Regional Director. “The World Bank is strongly committed to stand by Lebanon as it faces unprecedented compounded crises by saving people’s lives and livelihoods and supporting a faster economic recovery.”
The small-scale farmers’ support program will provide eligible farmers with two types of vouchers for the procurement of essential inputs to enable continued agricultural production: vouchers for crop production inputs (fertilizers, seeds, seedlings and other eligible agricultural inputs) and vouchers for livestock production inputs, mostly feed. The value of each voucher would be US$300. Given that most of the agricultural inputs in Lebanon are imported, all transactions between the input suppliers and farmers will be processed in US dollars through vouchers.
The program will be implemented by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Lebanon (FAO) under the overall technical leadership and guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and in strict compliance with World Bank’s fiduciary and safeguard policies. The FAO will be responsible for identifying and selecting the input suppliers in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria, verifying and validating that the input suppliers have received the funds and distributed the inputs to eligible beneficiaries upon submission of the vouchers, and submitting monitoring reports on a monthly basis.
“FAO is building on its similar agricultural inputs voucher schemes experience in Lebanon and the world with the aim to contribute to restoring the livelihoods and productive capacities of farmers and producers and increasing agricultural production and productivity in Lebanon”, said Maurice Saade, FAO Representative in Lebanon.  “Those being the first two pillars of the National Agricultural Strategy recently adopted by the Lebanese Ministry of Agriculture with technical support from FAO.”
Under the program, FAO will also recruit an independent Third-Party Monitoring Agent (TPMA) to conduct: (i) the validation of a random sample of “pre-approved beneficiaries” based on field visits to ensure that the beneficiaries meet the eligibility criteria; and ii) the post-distribution monitoring, based on the verification of a random sample of beneficiaries who received input vouchers. Another TPMA will be recruited by the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) to verify that the animal vaccinations have been implemented as per the agreed procedures and in accordance with the annual vaccination program of the Directorate of Animal Resources.
Farmers will be invited to submit their applications to the program via a national campaign to be launched shortly by the Ministry of Agriculture in collaboration with FAO. The small-scale farmers’ support program will adopt a robust Grievance Redress Mechanism to ensure queries and complaints of all stakeholders including farming applicants, beneficiary farmers, input suppliers and agricultural communities are resolved in a prompt, efficient and transparent manner. The program was designed in close collaboration with the World Bank who will undertake close monitoring of implementation to ensure strict compliance with the principles of transparency, fairness and efficiency.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/127314-world-bank-supports-small-scale-lebanese-farmers-reeling-under-pressure-lebanon%E2%80%99s-multiple




Date: 19 May 2021
Title: Statement of the International Support Group for Lebanon
Content: 19 May 2021
Noting the continuing economic, social and financial decline in Lebanon since its last meeting in March 2021, the increasing challenges faced by Lebanese institutions in addressing the multiple crises, and the growing hardship on the Lebanese population, ISG members lamented the continuing political stalemate in the government formation process.  They noted that nine months have now elapsed since the resignation of the last government, and over six months since the approval by Parliament of the Prime Minister-designate.  Once again, the ISG called on Lebanon’s leaders to set aside their differences in the national interest, and to delay no further the formation of a fully empowered government capable of meeting the country’s urgent needs and implementing long overdue critical reforms.  Responsibility for averting a deeper crisis rests with the Lebanese leadership.
The ISG called for elections to take place on time in order to preserve Lebanon’s democracy in the context of the ongoing crisis, and urged all relevant Lebanese authorities to initiate timely preparations in accordance with the electoral calendar.  The ISG further urged that all necessary steps be taken to mitigate the social and economic impact of any changes to the national subsidy programme.
The ISG remained united in its firm and continuing support for Lebanon and its people.
**************
Note to Editors
The International Support Group has brought together the United Nations and the governments of China, France, Germany, Italy, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, together with the European Union and the Arab League.  It was launched in September 2013 by the UN Secretary-General with former President Michel Sleiman to help mobilize support and assistance for Lebanon’s stability, sovereignty and state institutions.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/127188-statement-international-support-group-lebanon




Date: 17 May 2021
Title: UN Lebanon Joint Statement on International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia, Intersexphobia  and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT)
Content: 17 May 2021
On the occasion of the International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia, Intersexphobia and Transphobia (IDAHOBIT) that is observed on May 17, 2021, the United Nations and its partners stand in solidarity with all people of diverse sexual orientations, gender identities, gender expressions and sex characteristics (SOGIESC).
The economic, political, and humanitarian crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic and the devastating Beirut port explosions have aggravated the vulnerabilities of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Intersex, Queer (LGBTIQ+) and gender diverse individuals in Lebanon. These communities are experiencing an increase in gender-based violence, such as domestic abuse, sexual exploitation and death threats. Fear of harassment in public spaces and the diminishing presence of LGBTIQ+ friendly spaces, are leading to social isolation and deteriorating mental health. Pre-existing homophobic and transphobic discrimination have also contributed to a significant rise in unemployment, homelessness, and food insecurity.
Against this backdrop, the United Nations emphasizes the importance of the recommendations put forth in the third Universal Periodic Review report of Lebanon (issued on January 2021) with respect to SOGIESC issues, and reiterates its firm commitment to support the needs of LGBTIQ+ individuals. Accordingly, all United Nations entities and their partners pledge to:
These commitments build on the United Nations’ past and on-going support to people of diverse SOGIESC and LGBTIQ+ rights.[1] Over the past year, the United Nations and their partners in Lebanon have:
On this day of IDAHOBIT, and in recognition of its global mandate to “Leave No One Behind”, the United Nations affirms its unwavering commitment to work for the protection, rights, and well-being of people of diverse SOGIESC in Lebanon.
Check out the pdf document for the full statement with its references.
*************
[1] In recognition of IDAHOBIT 2020, fifteen member states sent a letter to the United Nations in Lebanon, calling for more attention to the rights of LGBTIQ+ persons. In response, the United Nations publicly announced its commitment to work to improve the rights and lives of people of diverse SOGIESC. Check it here: https://lebanon.un.org/en/126242-un-lebanon-response-idahobit-statement-addressed-united-nations-and-partners-support-rights.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/126954-un-lebanon-joint-statement-international-day-against-homophobia-biphobia-intersexphobia-and




Date: 12 May 2021
Title: UN Lebanon releases its 2020 annual report, committing to support Lebanon & its people to Build Back Better
Content: 12 May 2021
Through inspiring people’s stories and the ongoing commitment of the UN Country Team and its long-standing partners, the ‘2020 UN Lebanon Annual Results Report’ summarizes the results achieved throughout 2020, after four consecutive years of the implementation of the United Nations Strategic Framework for Lebanon 2017–2020 (UNSF). The UNSF outlines the UN’s common vision and expected contribution to support Lebanon’s political, human rights, humanitarian and development priorities as well as the country’s security.
“2020 was an exceptionally challenging year for Lebanon, marked by a series of socio-economic and political hardships that wreaked havoc on the people of Lebanon and continue to submerge the country with unprecedented challenges. Despite the scale of these challenges, UN Lebanon continues to support the people and commits to defend their rights to dignity, peace and justice,” said Najat Rochdi, UN Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon.
The report highlights key results achieved in response to the COVID19 pandemic and the Beirut port explosions as well as to the Syria crisis and other peace and development priorities set for 2020. These include, but are not limited to, the rehabilitation of 48 schools and around 6,000 residential and non-residential units severely damaged by the devastating explosions, as well as the provision of multipurpose cash assistance to around 91,500 persons.
According to the report, more than 1,200,000 vulnerable people across Lebanon were provided with better access to safe water and around 500,000 children, both Lebanese and refugees, were enrolled in formal education. Through the National Poverty Targeting Program (NPTP), more than 15,000 vulnerable Lebanese households benefited from food assistance in 2020, and over 120,000 Lebanese and non-Lebanese children and other vulnerable groups received cash grants, while thousands of Lebanese and Syrian workers benefited from short-term decent job opportunities.
“This is the raison d’être of the United Nations in Lebanon,” added Rochdi. “Whatever we do, be it in responding to emergencies, promoting peace and preventing conflict, supporting good governance, protecting human rights, promoting gender equality and reducing poverty, our overriding aim remains the same: to serve Lebanon and its people.”
In response to the COVID19 outbreak in Lebanon, the UN and its partners managed to expand hospitals’ bed capacity by procuring 73 fully equipped intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 800 equipped regular beds, together with 170 ventilators. To attenuate the effects of the pandemic on the most vulnerable, the UN also provided 50,000 of the poorest Lebanese households with food parcels, while 700 vulnerable migrant workers who lost their jobs due to COVID-19 and the socio-economic crisis were provided with cash assistance.
Ecologically, nearly 7,000 tons of CO2/equivalent were reduced during 2020 from solar hot water system and solar street lighting systems established by the UN in different parts of Lebanon, says the report, whereas approximately 17 municipalities, with a combined 310,000 people, benefited from improved solid waste management.
More results can be found in the report, accessible on the following URL: https://bit.ly/3o5d3B3

************
About the UN Lebanon:
Lebanon is one of the 51 founding members of the United Nations that signed the UN Charter on June 26th, 1945. Since then, the UN engagement in Lebanon has been active and uninterrupted. Today, the UN works with the Government of Lebanon and its people towards the achievement of the country’s national priorities that correspond with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In total, there are 26 UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes (UNAFPs) active on Lebanese soil.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/126756-un-lebanon-releases-its-2020-annual-report-committing-support-lebanon-its-people-build-back




Date: 04 May 2021
Title: UN-Habitat and UNICEF promote uptake of jointly collected data on disadvantaged urban neighbourhoods by municipalities and other stakeholders across Lebanon
Content: 04 May 2021
The workshops presented the main findings of the profiles and took participants through the many functionalities of the portal. They also promoted the use of the data for evidence-based programming and coordination within an area-based framework.
“UN-Habitat hopes that the neighbourhood profiles will continue to serve local authorities, local and international stakeholders, to inform interventions that have the potential to address immediate needs, enhance social stability, and contribute to sustainable urban development. This is especially important as the country responds to multiple and ongoing crises,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
In a highly urbanized country characterized by a lack of data on cities, the neighbourhood profiles cover multiple themes or sectors, including local economy and livelihoods, buildings, water and sanitation, health, education, and child protection. They also study these issues from the perspective of all residents living in a geographical area – regardless of nationality, gender and age.
“The joint neighbourhood profiling project responds to a long-standing scarcity of reliable, multisectoral and spatialized data required to inform sustainable development and humanitarian response – by all actors,” said Yukie Mokuo, Representative of UNICEF Lebanon.
Multiple shocks and challenges in Lebanon - ranging from the Syrian refugee crisis, the socioeconomic and financial crises, the COVID-19 pandemic, and recovery and reconstruction following the Beirut Port blast - clearly demonstrate the need for accurate and holistic baseline data at the city and neighbourhood levels.
“With the neighbourhood profiling data, the Beirut Municipality will be able to better understand the needs of its residents, which will in turn enable us to tailor and prioritize our interventions to address the most pressing needs and challenges facing inhabitants, with the aim of ultimately improving their quality of life,” said Jamal Itani, Mayor of Beirut. He spoke during one of the last workshops in the series, held on 24 March 2021 in Beirut Municipality, covering the neighbourhoods of Sabra, Daouk-Ghawash, Hayy Tamlis and Karm El-Zeytoun.
“The profile that UN-Habitat and UNICEF have undertaken in Sibline will be considered as the baseline or starting point for the preparation of any project proposals that we want to submit to donors. Your study has come as a support to the municipality’s vision to respond to what the country is facing, including the civil uprising, COVID-19 lockdowns and the challenging economic and political situation,” said Mohammad Younes, Mayor of Sibline, following a neighbourhood profile workshop held in the area.
Municipalities targeted by the UN-Habitat–UNICEF Neighbourhood Profiling project include Baalbek; Barja; Beirut; Bourj Hammoud; Burj El-Shemali; El-Marj; El-Minié-Nabi Youchaa; Halba; Ketermaya; Tripoli; Haret El-Fouwar; Qabb Elias Wadi El Dalam; Saida; Sibline; Sinn El-Fil; Sour (Tyre); Taalbaya; Naameh Haret El-Naameh; Zahle, Maalaka and Taanayel; and Zouq Mkayel.
The workshops are complemented by two tutorial videos prepared by UN-Habitat and UNICEF that enable users to navigate different components of the portal and geoportal, as well as a toolkit that serves as a reference and guide to using the profiles.

About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries, supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high-impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
About UNICEF
Working in Lebanon for over 70 years, UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF Lebanon and our work for children, visit www.unicef.org/lebanon/
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/126201-un-habitat-and-unicef-promote-uptake-jointly-collected-data-disadvantaged-urban




Date: 28 April 2021
Title: UN Clarifies UN Recruitment Channels
Content: 28 April 2021
It has come to the attention of the United Nations (UN) that some individuals in Lebanon may be impersonating UN staff members and scamming people after promising them jobs with the UN or circulating fake vacancy announcements of positions with the international organization.
The UN system in Lebanon underlines that its recruitment procedures are not done through individuals but strictly through the official UN career portal or official UN websites.
The UN system also underlines that individuals impersonating the position of an international UN civil servant would be committing fraud and subject to legal action.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/125862-un-clarifies-un-recruitment-channels




Date: 22 April 2021
Title: IOM and Government of Japan to Provide Community and Health Support to Vulnerable Groups in Lebanon
Content: 22 April 2021
The project will enhance IOM’s response to the growing challenges Lebanese communities are facing due to the severe economic crisis, and the COVID-19 pandemic. The project will support communities that host a significant number of displaced populations, by supporting the provision of local resources and infrastructure, while also creating employment opportunities, and enhancing access to healthcare.
“To sustain the social services and support the local economies become more imperative than ever as the socio-economic challenges are intensifying the magnitude and severity of poverty among both the Lebanese local and the displaced communities,” said H.E. Mr. Okubo Takeshi, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon. “I hope that this project will mitigate the impact of the multiple crises on the vulnerable groups such as children, women, elderly, and displaced people in Lebanon.”
“The contribution from Japan provides vital support to the vulnerable communities in Lebanon, during these difficult times. This support is critical to IOM’s ability to continue alleviating the suffering of the country’s most vulnerable populations.” said IOM’s Head of Office Mr. Mathieu Luciano.
Funded by the Government of Japan, the project will enable IOM to implement community support projects in areas of the Bekaa and North Lebanon that are facing increasing community instability, as traditional tensions related to the presence of displaced communities, come under increased strain due to deteriorating conditions in Lebanon.  The Organization will provide local services and infrastructure to mitigate these tensions and implement cash for work programmes for economically vulnerable Lebanese and Syrian households.
The project will also support the Lebanese health system’s response to COVID-19 and facilitate access to health services to vulnerable individuals from local, migrant, and displaced population groups.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/125614-iom-and-government-japan-provide-community-and-health-support-vulnerable-groups-lebanon




Date: 21 April 2021
Title: UN’s Najat Rochdi announces the UN Vaccination Program for its UN Personnel and designated Dependents in Lebanon
Content: 21 April 2021
The UN System-wide COVID-19 Vaccination Programme is fully supported by the UN Country Team and is aligned with the national vaccination plan and the roll-out of vaccines that are closely coordinated with UNICEF, WHO and the Ministry of Public Health (MoPH).
Through this UN-administered vaccine, the UN system in Lebanon hopes to lessen the burden on the Government by providing additional Covid-19 vaccines in close coordination with MoPH, while committing to ensuring the protection, safety and well-being of its own international and national personnel.
Ms. Rochdi clarified that the UN vaccination will follow the standards of prioritization set by the UN, which are in line with MoPH guidance. She also mentioned that the vaccines will be provided to UNIFIL troops as well as to the UN personnel and their dependents, noting that the vaccination sites are selected in agreement with the MoPH standards and requirements. The UN also emphasizes its commitment to upload all relevant information about the vaccinated UN staff to the National IMPACT platform.
The Resident and Humanitarian coordinator finally reiterated the need to protect the UN personnel so they can in turn protect and serve others.
********
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/125413-un%E2%80%99s-najat-rochdi-announces-un-vaccination-program-its-un-personnel-and-designated




Date: 20 April 2021
Title: Bikeshare initiative launches in Tyre through UN-Habitat coordinated City-to-City Partnership with Zurich
Content: 20 April 2021
By using bikes, users can choose an alternative mode of transportation, that is not only green but can decrease exposure to COVID-19, while reducing traffic congestion, accidents and pollution in the city.
“This project and its second phase – the launching of a “Park and Ride” – a low-cost and accessible bus shuttle service and parking lot, are key entry points to introducing alternative transportation modalities – for all population groups in the congested city of Tyre. The hope is to promote a culture of green commuting, that can contribute to long term benefits of improved health and well-being of the bikeshare users and improved air quality,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
The bike stations are one of the activities within the City-City Partnership whose main objectives are to: (1) enhance the technical and human resource capacities of Tyre’s Regional Technical Office – a coordinating body established by UN-Habitat during project implementation that brings public and civil local actors together to address their designated area’s needs; (2) facilitate knowledge exchange between the cities of Tyre and Zurich through workshops and dialogue; and, (3) implement tangible projects that respond to the city’s needs.
“I am very delighted to see that this cooperation that has started in 2017 is now established and first tangible results such as the bike rental station are being implemented.” said Corine Mauch, Mayor of Zurich, Switzerland
The City-to-City project partnership between Zurich and Tyre municipalities began in 2017, aiming at supporting the Municipality of Tyre in coping with the effects of the Syrian refugee crisis in the city. This project partnership is expected to improve the performance of Tyre and achieve a long-term positive impact in the field of soft mobility through sharing the experiences between both cities to address the needs of refugees hosted by the city.
“Most projects begin at a small-scale during times of need and as they grow, they expand the community’s horizons - this is exactly what this initiative represents. We are thankful for our close and cooperative partnership with the City of Zurich and for UN-Habitat’s coordinating role and look forward to the future of the project’s next phases.” said Hassan Dbouk, Mayor of Tyre, Lebanon
***
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/125384-bikeshare-initiative-launches-tyre-through-un-habitat-coordinated-city-city-partnership




Date: 15 April 2021
Title: IOM Launches its Five-Year Strategy for the MENA Region to Effectively Address Growing Challenges Facing Migrants
Content: 15 April 2021
Guided by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration and Agenda 2063 of the African Union Commission (AUC), this strategy aims to prioritize three key pillars – resilience, mobility and governance – for 2020 to 2024, in line with the implementation of IOM’s 2019-2023 Strategic Vision.
The 2020-2024 Regional MENA Strategy reflects how the organization will navigate years to effectively address the growing complex challenges and uncertainties in the fields of migration, mobility and humanitarian aid and to seize the opportunities that migration can offer to both migrants and society.
“The strategic pillars reflect the reality that it is no longer possible to work through strictly defined programmatic areas, but rather through a whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach to manage migration in a way that recognizes its transnational, transboundary and multi-dimensional nature,” said IOM Director General, Mr. Antònio Vitorino, in his opening remarks.
“This strategy is based on IOM’s institutional approach to Migration and Sustainable Development which comprehensively integrate migration and development into policymaking and programming within IOM,” said IOM MENA Regional Director Carmela Godeau." IOM MENA strategy seeks to bring greater coherence and development impact to IOM’s activities.”
The strategy was formulated in accordance with regional priorities and Member States’ efforts to enhance migration governance and always protect vulnerable populations. IOM aspires to further support governments in national priorities and regional and international commitments to allow migrants, displaced populations, and host communities to exercise their rights.
The first GCM Regional Review in the Arab Region, held in February 2021, shed light on the cruciality of managing migration through a 360-degree approach to “Build back better” together. Many stakeholders and actors across the region are now showing a growing enthusiasm to integrate this holistic approach into the ways in which they plan, deliver and operate.
While IOM remains committed to ensuring that migration is safe, orderly and regular, this regional strategy will be reviewed periodically to ensure that the ongoing and emerging impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic and other significant regional and global developments are being addressed effectively.
The 2020-2024 MENA Regional Strategy is now available in AR/EN/FR.
For more information, please contact:  Mohammedali Abunajela, at IOM Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa, mmabunajela@iom.int
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/124846-iom-launches-its-five-year-strategy-mena-region-effectively-address-growing-challenges




Date: 31 March 2021
Title: First Consultative Group Meeting on the Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework
Content: 31 March 2021
Building on the 3RF launched by the EU, UN and the World Bank Group in December 2020, the meeting brought together around 60 representatives of the Government of Lebanon, Civil Society Organizations, international donors and financing institutions, to assess the needs and priorities for recovery interventions needed under the 3RF implementation. The meeting also took stock of the humanitarian assistance provided to date within the context of a deepening political and economic crisis, increased poverty and worsening food security, all exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The meeting reviewed the reform priorities included in the 3RF and reiterated the urgency of adopting and implementing key credible reforms, which are essential to build back better and put Lebanon on the path of sustained recovery.
The 3RF Consultative Group fosters a new and innovative partnership model that brings all key actors together in a participatory and inclusive manner. Civil Society representatives play a key role in the process by bringing the voice of the people to the table, putting forward suggestions to address the underlying challenges and monitoring the implementation of the 3RF.
The following is the co-chairs’ summary of the first 3RF Consultative Group meeting: https://bit.ly/3wiTQPN

*******
The 3RF report can be found here
*******
Delegation of the European Union Lebanon
Tatiana Hosny Richa, Press and Information Officer, E-mail: tatiana.hosny@eeas.europa.eu
United Nations
Nadine Daou, National Information Officer, Resident Coordinator Office (RCO)/UNIC Beirut, Email: daou@un.org
World Bank Group
Zeina El Khalil, External Affairs Officer, Email: zelkhalil@worldbank.org

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/123673-first-consultative-group-meeting-reform-recovery-and-reconstruction-framework




Date: 30 March 2021
Title: Japan pledges over USD 2 million to UN-Habitat to rehabilitate structurally unsound buildings in neighbourhoods affected by the Beirut blast
Content: 30 March 2021
Over seven months have passed since the Beirut blast and many buildings, public spaces and infrastructure remain in need of structural repair. UN-Habitat, through funding of over USD 2 million from the Government of Japan, will help improve already deteriorated living conditions of vulnerable population groups living in Beirut’s Gemmayzeh, Mar Mikhael and Karantina neighbourhoods starting 31 March 2021 for one year. The project will rehabilitate 10 multi-story buildings, public spaces, and community infrastructure severely damaged by the Beirut blast.
“The Japanese contribution is in line with my vision of the situation from day one of the crisis response. It helps enable residents to remain in their neighbourhoods and maintain the cultural profile of Beirut city. Thus, I welcome all similar contributions that serve Beirut's residents,” said Marwan Abboud, Governor of Beirut.
This project will build upon UN-Habitat’s supporting role in carrying out immediate building-level damage assessments for Beirut and Bourj Hammoud, together with the Municipality of Beirut and other actors, immediately after the Beirut blast. These assessments form the basis of selection of buildings, some of which are heritage buildings, and public spaces to be rehabilitated by the project, while taking into consideration the socio-economic vulnerability of the expected beneficiaries.
“The restoration of the city’s heritage after the Beirut blast will make a huge difference to our community. Together, united, we can inspire hope and create a better tomorrow for Beirut – strengthening and restoring the city after the blast. Your generosity and dedications means a lot to us,” said Jamal Itani, Mayor of Beirut.
While the worsening socio-economic situation in Lebanon continues to deepen, this project will also help mitigate the effects of the crisis by providing community members with cash-for-work after they have acquired the necessary construction and rehabilitation skills through tailored vocational training sessions. Youth groups of vulnerable Lebanese, and Syrian refugees will be engaged and employed for the project’s construction and rehabilitation activities, aimed at supporting the revitalization of the local economy and enhancing the community’s sense of ownership.
“I am extremely happy to share the news with the Lebanese people that we have launched the important project in partnership with UN-Habitat for reconstruction and recovery from the destructions caused by the Beirut Harbour blast, embodying our deepest sympathy with those Lebanese friends and partners who were severely affected by the tragic event. There is no better time than now to deliver speedy services to the people in pains and sufferings as the socio-economic situation is rapidly deteriorating in the country after the blast. Japan is strongly committed to extending its helping hand to those people in dire situation as a friend in need,” said H.E. Mr. Okubo Takeshi, Ambassador of Japan to Lebanon.
This partnership is part of a series of initiatives launched or supported by UN-Habitat following the Beirut blast. Through adopting a “Build Back Better” approach, UN-Habitat reiterates its commitment to support those affected by the blast and beyond, within the wider response of the humanitarian and development community, and as part of the concerted and coordinated efforts of the United Nations family in Lebanon.
“As the emergency humanitarian response to the Beirut blast has ended, this project is crucial in supporting the city’s holistic recovery through rebuilding buildings and infrastructure that forms the character of some of Beirut’s most heritage-rich neighbourhoods,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of the UN-Habitat Lebanon Country Programme.
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/123567-japan-pledges-over-usd-2-million-un-habitat-rehabilitate-structurally-unsound-buildings




Date: 23 March 2021
Title: UN’s Najat Rochdi Calls for Rapid Formation of New Government
Content: 23 March 2021
Ms. Najat Rochdi, UN Deputy Special Coordinator and Officer in Charge of the Office of the UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon (UNSCOL) today called on Lebanon’s political leaders to focus most urgently on the formation of an empowered government, as a critical step to address the country’s multiple and serious crises and implement required reforms.  “This step must be taken and can no longer be delayed” she said.
With the socio-economic crisis deepening, the financial situation plummeting and the people entering poverty and food insecurity, Ms. Rochdi called on Lebanese leaders to set aside their differences, step up to their responsibilities, end the paralysis, listen to the now desperate calls of the Lebanese, and finally offer solutions to the people of Lebanon.
Ms. Rochdi reiterated that the UN remains committed to supporting the People of Lebanon, the Country’s stability, political independence, and sovereignty.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/122961-un%E2%80%99s-najat-rochdi-calls-rapid-formation-new-government




Date: 18 March 2021
Title: UN’s Najat Rochdi Briefs the UN Security Council on Lebanon
Content: 18 March 2021
Ms. Rochdi voiced deep concern over the socio-economic and financial crisis in Lebanon that has continued to deteriorate since the last meeting of the Security Council in November, and which has had implications on the country’s security and stability.
Noting the rise in public protests and the disillusionment and hardships felt by a majority of the Lebanese people, Ms. Rochdi said Lebanese authorities should act urgently to halt the deepening crisis and ensure good governance. Security Council members agreed that Lebanon’s political forces should immediately facilitate the formation of a fully-empowered Government to undertake the reforms necessary to put Lebanon on the path of recovery and restore the trust of the people and the international community.
Security Council members welcomed the role played by the Lebanese Armed Forces and security forces in safeguarding Lebanon’s sovereignty, security and stability during this very sensitive period of Lebanese history, even though they were also impacted by the socio-economic crisis.
They also welcomed the role played by UNIFIL in supporting the LAF to safeguard security and stability in south Lebanon. They highlighted the importance of both Lebanon and Israel respecting the Blue Line and implementing Resolution 1701 in its entirety.
On the importance of promoting the rule of law, Ms. Rochdi reiterated the need for full accountability and justice to be served, through credible, transparent and swift investigations into the Beirut port explosion and last month’s killing of Mr. Lokman Slim.
Council Members acknowledged Lebanon’s continuing efforts to host and support refugees despite multiple challenges.
Ms. Rochdi highlighted the importance of continued international unity in support of Lebanon’s sovereignty, stability and security.
Security Council members reiterated their support for Lebanon, its people, its sovereignty and territorial integrity.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/122645-un%E2%80%99s-najat-rochdi-briefs-un-security-council-lebanon




Date: 12 March 2021
Title: 2021 Lebanon Crisis Response Plan appeals for $2.75 billion to respond to the impact of the Syrian crisis in Lebanon
Content: 12 March 2021
As the world marks ten years since the start of the crisis in Syria, the Government of Lebanon and its national and international partners are appealing for US$ 2.75 billion to provide critical humanitarian assistance to the people affected by the Syria crisis, as well as invest in Lebanon’s public infrastructure, services and local economy. The LCRP brings together more than 112 partner organizations to assist more than 2.8 million crisis-affected people living in Lebanon. It aims to provide protection and immediate relief assistance to 1.9 million Syrian refugees, vulnerable Lebanese and Palestine refugees; deliver basic services to 2.5 million people; and seek to mitigate the impacts of the Syria crisis on Lebanon’s infrastructure, economy and public institutions.
Since 2011, US$8.807 billion has been received in support of the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan. The assistance made possible by donor contributions and implemented by humanitarian, Government and development partners, has generated a real difference in the lives of hundreds of thousands of families.
In 2020, and thanks to projects falling under the Lebanon Crisis Response Plan, 350,000 people were able to access to safe water. 929,000 people received food assistance. 967,000 subsidized primary healthcare consultations were provided. More than 400,000 children – both Syrian and Lebanese – were enrolled in school and, 100,000 individuals were able to access legal aid and life-saving sexual and gender-based violence services.
The concerted response by the Government, the international partners and Lebanese civil society prevented a sharp decline in socio-economic vulnerability levels for displaced Syrians between 2015 and 2019. At the same time, support under the LCRP to Lebanon’s public institutions seeking to improve all populations’ access to basic services has continuously increased from $171.5m in 2015 to more than $245.4m in 2019.
However, needs in the country have dramatically increased, exacerbated by the multiple crises that Lebanon has experienced, from an economic decline to the COVID-19 pandemic to the devastating Beirut port explosions. Ten years into the protracted Syria crisis, refugees’ assistance and protection needs are steadily increasing along with those of all communities in Lebanon. Currently 91% of Syrian families are living below the poverty line on less than USD 3.84 a day. An estimated 55% of Lebanese also live below the poverty line throughout the country. As families’ vulnerability worsens, tensions between and within communities are rising due to competition over resources and services as people strive to meet their basic needs.
“Addressing the overwhelming and urgent needs of the people is at the heart of the work of the United Nations in Lebanon, including those who were directly affected by the Syrian crisis. We are here to respond to a multi-faceted crisis of devastating proportions,” said Rochdi. “With the generous support of donors, the UN with its humanitarian partners mobilized their efforts to provide life-saving assistance and respond to the horrendous Beirut Port explosions. But there is still a long way to support the refugees, the host communities, the migrants and also the Lebanese reeling under the socio-economic crisis who deserve our full solidarity and commitment,” she added.
For his part, Moucharafieh emphasized: “it is vital that we continue to build on the LCRP achievements in partnership with UN agencies and NGOs, which has been made possible thanks to the very generous support of donors. The situation in Lebanon remains extremely worrying, with vulnerabilities among the displaced Syrians and the Lebanese host communities snowballing. We urgently need donors to scale up their support to bridge the growing gaps in the response in light of the compounded crises. It is essential that we can consciously and visibly increase support to refugees and host communities alike to tackle aid bias and in order to avoid exacerbating tensions over jobs and public services and promote conflict sensitivity”.
The LCRP 2017-2021 is the key tool of the response to the impact of the Syria crisis in Lebanon. As well as providing protection and assistance to those directly affected by the crisis – including Syrian displaced, Palestinian refugees, and Lebanese – the LCRP plays a central role in supporting Lebanon’s public services for the benefit of all.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/116019-2021-lebanon-crisis-response-plan-appeals-275-billion-respond-impact-syrian-crisis-lebanon




Date: 11 March 2021
Title: Statement of the International Support Group for Lebanon
Content: 11 March 2021
The ISG noted the precipitating socio-economic crisis in Lebanon, compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic. It expressed its concern at the increasing tensions in the country, including the recent protests. The ISG called for demonstrations to remain peaceful, for human rights to be protected. It further called for full accountability and justice to be served, through credible, transparent and swift investigations of the Beirut port explosion and the killing of Mr. Lokman Slim.
In the context of these developments, the ISG recalled with consternation that seven months have elapsed since the resignation of the last government, inhibiting Lebanon’s ability to address its deepening and increasingly complex political, social, financial, economic and institutional challenges, and to meet the legitimate needs and aspirations of the Lebanese people. The ISG reiterated its urgent call for Lebanon’s leaders to delay no longer the formation of a fully empowered government capable of meeting the country’s urgent needs and implementing critical reforms.
The ISG reiterated its firm and continuing support for Lebanon and its people.
Note to Editors
The International Support Group has brought together the United Nations and the governments of China, France, Germany, Italy, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, together with the European Union and the Arab League. It was launched in September 2013 by the UN Secretary-General with former President Michel Sleiman to help mobilize support and assistance for Lebanon’s stability, sovereignty and state institutions.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/116484-statement-international-support-group-lebanon




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: The United Nations Celebrates Women Leaders of Change in Lebanon on International Women’s Day
Content: 08 March 2021
Beirut, Lebanon
Monday, March 8, 2021 (United Nations) – On March 8, International Women’s Day, the United Nations honors women who are on the frontline of their fight against COVID-19.
Today, on International Women’s Day, the UN pays tribute to the countless women in Lebanon, striving in their communities to combat the far-reaching impacts of COVID-19, its health, economic and social effects on the country. While trying to mitigate the effects of this deadly pandemic, these women are working to build a future of equality, rights, and opportunities for all, as health care workers, caregivers, innovators, and community organizers. Today, we shine a spotlight on some of these women leaders actively working for social and political change, in a country that too often fails to recognize their important contributions.
In 2021, to recognize International Women’s Day, the United Nations System in Lebanon, coordinated by UN Women, funded by the United Kingdom  Government and in collaboration with the Arab Institute for Women at the Lebanese American University (LAU), comes together around a joint campaign building on the global  theme, Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world.
Dr. Martin Longden Chargé D’affaires, of the British embassy in Beirut, said “On International Women’s Day, the UK celebrates the achievements of the women of Lebanon.  This has been a desperately tough year here, with women bearing much of the brunt of the pressures – as they seek to protect their families, communities, and country from the tumult.  But crises also present opportunities for change; and it’s time for meaningful action to reduce gender inequalities and unleash the full potential of Lebanon’s extraordinary women.’
The campaign, conceived around combating the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and Lebanon’s compounded crises, includes a map of Lebanon showcasing female community leaders who are responding to the multiple crises facing the country. The map will remain as a permanent feature on the UN Lebanon website. In parallel, a social media campaign will run from 8 to 14 March on the social platforms of the UN agencies in Lebanon. The campaign will also include Arabic and English social media cards and stories of women leaders in Lebanon.
“Women of Lebanon have played a pivotal role in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic and we should not underestimate the knock-on effects of this virus on Lebanon’s worst socio-economic and financial crises in its modern history” said Deputy Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Najat Rochdi. “Today, we pay tribute to thousands of inspiring women leaders in Lebanon, volunteers, nurses, caregivers, medical doctors, activists, social workers, mothers and many others. We honor their outstanding leadership in responding to this virus through different innovative and humanitarian ways. On today’s International Women’s Day and every day, let us commit to put women’s interests and rights front and center because it is the only way to get through the devastating effects of this virus faster and to rebuild a future of equality, rights and opportunities that benefit everyone,” she added.
The women highlighted represent the tens of thousands of women working in their communities to address the current crises Lebanon is facing. The IWD 2021 campaign recognizes women’s contributions to every aspect of society, valuing women’s work that too often goes unrecognized and unrewarded, and acknowledging that equality is a long way off.
Myriam Sfeir, Director of the Arab Institute for Women at the Lebanese American University (LAU) said “It is critical to showcase the often-invisible work of women’s rights activists – beyond the usual suspects. There are many women whose names we don’t know, whose voices we don’t hear, yet whose work is radically transformative and is based on true feminist leadership with a vision of an equitable future for all”.
The first National Woman’s Day was observed in the United States on February 28, 1909. In 1975, during International Women’s Year, the United Nations began celebrating International Women’s Day on March 8, which is now celebrated in many countries worldwide. It is a day when women are recognized for their achievements regardless of divisions, be those national, ethnic, linguistic, cultural, economic, or political.
___________________________________________
The United Nations system in Lebanon comprises 23 agencies, funds and programmes, a peacekeeping mission, a political mission, and a regional commission covering a broad spectrum of peacekeeping, political, development, human rights, and humanitarian work in Lebanon. The United Nations supports Lebanon to promote the country’s long-term peace and security, development, and human rights priorities.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/114943-united-nations-celebrates-women-leaders-change-lebanon-international-women%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 05 March 2021
Title: UN IN LEBANON LAUNCHES ITS NEW BILINGUAL WEBSITE
Content: 05 March 2021
Beirut, 5 March 2021 (United Nations Information Centre)—The United Nations in Lebanon launched today its new bilingual website (https://lebanon.un.org/en / https://lebanon.un.org/ar) as part of its continued efforts to further bolster its public outreach efforts in Lebanon and the region.
This new website provides the public with an opportunity to learn more about the structure of the UN in Lebanon, its different activities, key initiatives, scheduled events and main results achieved at the national level. In addition to information on the UN Resident Coordinator Office, the OCHA team supporting the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, and the various UN entities that are operational in Lebanon, the website dedicates a section on the UN Country Team members and their respective media contacts for future media inquiries.
The website, which will be regularly updated in both Arabic and English, offers a rich repository of publications, press releases, photo and video stories, upcoming events and news stories of joint UN work co-implemented by the 26 UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes (UNAFPs) active in Lebanon. The website also provides collective information and visualized data on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), allowing the public at large to see the progress of Lebanon towards achieving the SDGs, including the resources spent with regards to aid and other humanitarian and development priorities.
The UN in Lebanon hopes that the website will increase understanding of the mandate and work of the UN in Lebanon. By strengthening its engagement with the public, the UN in Lebanon also hopes to encourage the public to take individual and collective action towards the achievement of the SDGs that Lebanon has committed to achieve by 2030.
The website can be accessed on: https://lebanon.un.org/en  (ENG) / https://lebanon.un.org/ar (AR)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/114968-un-lebanon-launches-its-new-bilingual-website




Date: 02 March 2021
Title: UN-Habitat and Municipality of Beirut launch the Municipal Social Cell
Content: 02 March 2021
Beirut, 2 March 2021. UN-Habitat and the Municipality of Beirut (MoB) announced the launch of a newly established Municipal Social Cell (MSC), which aims to mitigate social and protection issues encountered by vulnerable urban host and migrant populations within the city of Beirut.
“The Municipality of Beirut hopes that the Municipal Social Cell will create a more sustainable bridge between the residents of Beirut and the Municipality of Beirut to not only provide a forum for vulnerable populations including refugees, migrants and the host community to voice their concerns, but also a dedicated platform for action to address their needs and challenges,” said Jamal Itani, Mayor of Beirut.
The MSC was established as one of the Targeted City Actions for Beirut under Mediterranean City-to-City Migration Project (MC2CM) that aims to enhance the engagement and commitment of the Municipality of Beirut in addressing social and protection issues encountered by vulnerable populations settled within vulnerable neighbourhoods of Beirut.
“The demographically diverse context of Beirut requires a targeted approach to address the needs of different people that is evidence-based and multisectoral, the Municipal Social Cell will go directly to the community to listen to their needs and ensure coordination between all stakeholders in interventions implemented,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Country Programme in Lebanon.
The MSC is comprised of community mobilizers and social workers. The community mobilizers are responsible for liaising with representatives from local communities in the field to gather data on issues encountered by vulnerable population groups. The social workers will coordinate with community mobilizers and local communities to analyse and collect data that informs the development and implementation of capacity building and awareness raising activities and targeted actions.
“I am excited to be part of the newly established Municipal Social Cell that will play a key role in ensuring a larger scale and holistic response to varied social and protection challenges that refugees, migrants and Lebanese are facing in Beirut, to ultimately improve living conditions for all,” said Pamela Assy, Social Worker in the Municipal Social Cell.
The MSC’s main aim is to enhance the capacity of the Municipality of Beirut in managing and addressing urban migration issues by increasing municipal investments in social projects through improved access to reliable social and protection field data.
This approach will inform municipal social interventions such as building community social centres, rehabilitating public spaces, equipping health centres and schools and enhancing sanitation within the neighbourhoods to ultimately improve the well-being of vulnerable population groups.
Learn more about Beirut’s Municipal Social Cell here.
***
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/114682-un-habitat-and-municipality-beirut-launch-municipal-social-cell




Date: 23 February 2021
Title: UN’s Najat Rochdi Meets Patriarch Bechara Boutros El-Rahi
Content: 23 February 2021
They discussed the latest developments in Lebanon, including the deepening socio-economic crisis and its impact on the Lebanese people. Ms. Rochdi listened to Patriarch Rahi’s proposal and views on holding an international conference for Lebanon.
Ms. Rochdi reiterated the UN’s longstanding and continuous support for Lebanon, in cooperation with other international partners, including through humanitarian, recovery and reconstruction assistance following last year’s tragic Beirut Port explosion, during the COVID19 health emergency and during the grave economic and social crisis. This support was reaffirmed at the 2 December international conference co-chaired by France and the UN to support the Lebanese people.
The UN hopes that Lebanon’s leaders will prioritize Lebanon’s national interest and rapidly overcome their differences to form a new government that addresses the country’s numerous challenges, meets the aspirations of the Lebanese people and implements necessary reforms.
The UN remains committed to supporting Lebanon, its stability, political independence, and sovereignty.
***



UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/113451-un%E2%80%99s-najat-rochdi-meets-patriarch-bechara-boutros-el-rahi




Date: 16 February 2021
Title: UN-Habitat and International Islamic Charity Organization partner to repair homes damaged by the Beirut Blast
Content: 16 February 2021
Beirut, 16 February 2021 -- More than six months after the Port of Beirut explosions, efforts to mitigate the direct impact of the blast continue. To this end, UN-Habitat and the International Islamic Charity Organization (IICO) signed an agreement to rehabilitate 100 damaged residential units in Bourj Hammoud, directly benefiting 500 people.
“The critical support will ensure that homes are repaired and sealed off to ensure minimum living conditions are returned, contributing to safeguarding the well-being of the most vulnerable, including women, children, elderly and disabled,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Country Programme in Lebanon.
In order to gap-fill remaining needs not covered by the immediate response in the first three months following the explosion, UN-Habitat conducted a rapid socio-economic survey towards the end of 2020, to identify households in Bourj Hammoud, still in need of repairs to their homes. Through this survey, UN-Habitat will ensure that the most vulnerable households will be restored through critical funding received from IICO.
Adequate housing is a fundamental human right. This project will ensure this by restoring houses with adequate living spaces and by guaranteeing physical safety. The support from IICO will also alleviate the vast socio-economic hardship faced by these vulnerable families, currently compounded by the total country lockdown since the beginning of the year.
“We are very thankful for this initiative, especially that the neighbourhood was carefully selected after a thorough survey. The houses before the blast were already in a bad shape and after the blast, they became unliveable. This partnership will help the most vulnerable families, where some of them aren’t even able to provide food for the children,” said Hayat Fakhreddine, community activist in Bourj Hammoud.
This partnership is part of a series of initiatives launched or supported by UN-Habitat following the Beirut Port explosions. Through adopting a “Build Back Better” approach, UN-Habitat reiterates its commitment to support those affected by the blast and beyond, within the wider response of the humanitarian and development community, and as part of the concerted and coordinated efforts of the United Nations family in Lebanon.
***
About the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
UN-Habitat works in over 90 countries supporting people in cities and human settlements for a better urban future. Working with governments and local partners, its high impact projects combine world-class expertise and local knowledge to deliver timely and targeted solutions. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a dedicated Goal on cities, SDG 11 – to make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
About International Islamic Charity Organization (IICO)
The International Islamic Charity Organization (IICO) is one of the largest humanitarian organizations in the Muslim world. It is an independent, multi-faceted charity that provides its humanitarian services to those in need in the world without discrimination or intolerance away from interference in politics or ethnic conflicts.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/112103-un-habitat-and-international-islamic-charity-organization-partner-repair-homes-damaged




Date: 03 February 2021
Title: The United Nations in Lebanon Supports Women’s Participation in Beirut’s Port Explosion Response and Recovery process
Content: 03 February 2021
To support this and other related work, the United Nations in Lebanon has recently launched a window of the global Women's Peace and Humanitarian Fund (WPHF). With UN Women serving as the Fund secretariat, a Call for Proposal has been issued that seeks to identify partners to support women’s participation in the Beirut’s Port Explosion response and recovery process, women’s participation in the country’s political recovery from the explosion, and to address issues of women and men’s exclusion from relief and recovery due to lack of formal documentation.
Funded by the Government of Germany, with participation from the Government of Canada and the European Union, this window aims to fund small and emerging women-led or women’s rights organizations from across Lebanon and seeks to compliment the work of the Lebanon Humanitarian Fund.
“Female-led organizations have played an impressive role in response to the port explosion. But all too often, female activists tell me that they struggle because demand keeps growing relentlessly as a result of rising poverty and rampant inflation’, said His Excellency Andreas Kindl, Ambassador of Germany to Lebanon. ‘That is why Germany has decided to help set up the Women’s Peace and Humanitarian Fund in Lebanon. I hope that other donors will join us soon. We look forward to receiving many innovative proposals, including from recently-established organizations that strive for profound structural change.”
“The women of Lebanon played a vital role in the response to the horrendous Beirut port explosions. They made every effort to support those in need, to clear streets and houses from debris and be part of wider relief efforts. They proved to be ‘Leaders of Change’ and ‘Messengers of Hope’,” said Najat Rochdi, Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon. “It is these women that we want to support and further empower to shape a peaceful and gender equal society where no one is left behind,” she added. “Thanks to the generous funding of the Government of Germany and the valuable support of the Government of Canada and the European Union, together we aim to reach an equitable recovery through women’s leading projects and people-centered initiatives”.
This Call for Proposal  encourages joint applications and will provide special attention to applications from small women-led organization and women’s rights organization and proposals that target in their approaches women and girls who face multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination, such as those marginalized and excluded due to poverty, ethnicity, disability, age, geography, sexual orientation, lack of citizenship or because of their migratory status.
An information session will be organized for all interested organizations on February 11th at 11am (Beirut time). Organizations can attend it by registering on the following link (https://ee.humanitarianresponse.info/x/yaSkxWV2) or via email (cfp.lebanon@unwomen.org).
The proposals need to be sent to cfp.lebanon@unwomen.org not later than March 8th.
Questions regarding the Call for Proposal can be sent via the following email: cfp.lebanon@unwomen.org.

********
About the WPHF:
The WPHF is a global pooled funding mechanism which aims to re-energize action and stimulate a significant increase in financing for women’s participation, leadership, and empowerment in peace and security processes and humanitarian response. The WPHF is governed by a Funding Board at the global level, which is comprised of four UN entities (currently UN Women, UNDP, UNFPA and PBSO), four donor Member States (currently Germany, the Netherlands, the European Commission and Canada), as well as 4 Civil Society Organizations (currently International Civil Society Action Network on women’s rights, peace and security (ICAN), Global Partnership for the Prevention of Armed Conflict (GPPAC), Transitional Justice Institute and Women Enabled International). UN Women acts as the WPHF’s Technical Secretariat at the global level. UN Women also acts as Management Entity for civil society organizations where UN Women has a country presence.


UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/110427-united-nations-lebanon-supports-women%E2%80%99s-participation-beirut%E2%80%99s-port-explosion-response-and




Date: 13 January 2021
Title: UN urges people to abide by preventive measures to contain COVID-19 spread amidst unprecedented health emergency
Content: 13 January 2021
13 January 2021 – As Lebanon registers new records in the daily surge of COVID-19 infections and after the Lebanese government has declared a health emergency, UN Lebanon and partners call on individuals and all sectors to strictly abide by the lockdown and preventive measures.
Despite continued efforts by many individuals, families, communities, public and private services, businesses and industries that have been applying preventive measures since February 2020, the number of cases has increased to the extent that ICU beds are no longer available in Beirut and 1,705 people have lost their lives, out of 226,948 cumulative cases, as of 12 January 2021. The increase was primarily driven by a significant increase in social gatherings during the holiday season, such as restaurants, crowds at bars, weddings, shopping malls and elsewhere. COVID-19 is a deadly disease impacting the health of individuals, their livelihoods and the economy. It will only decrease if individuals and all public and private sectors abide by preventive measures strictly and consistently.
“We have reached a tipping point in our year-long fight against COVID19. The virus is spreading like wildfire and is weighing heavily and severely on Lebanon’s multifaceted crises, making people’s life unbearable on different fronts,” said Najat Rochdi, Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon. “Business as usual is no longer an option and fighting this deadly virus doesn’t spare anyone. We have all a role to play, a social responsibility to recognize and shoulder. That’s why we must all redouble our efforts and take simple but life-saving preventive and safety measures because every single person’s support and contribution is crucial to that effort,” she added.
UN Lebanon and partners will flood their digital platforms with a new campaign to extend the promotion of the preventive measures and behaviors, as part of the UN response to contain COVID-19 through communication and community engagement strategies. UN support to the COVID-19 national plan also includes immediate coordinated response plans and actions to control the transmission of the virus, such as the provision of technical assistance, health supplies, services and equipment, and capacity building.
Download the video messages and disseminate them to fight COVID-19 in Lebanon:
Campaign video
COVID Preventive Measures videos
Share the video, follow #TimeToAbide and #StopCOVIDNow and share the messages that will help families protect themselves and contain the alarming spread of the virus by complying with the preventive measures:
****************
Learn more from the daily updates provided by global and national health authorities:
Arabic:
https://www.who.int/ar/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019
https://www.moph.gov.lb/ar/Media/view/32419/1/covid-19-
http://drm.pcm.gov.lb/
https://corona.ministryinfo.gov.lb

English:
https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019
https://www.moph.gov.lb/maps/covid19.php

For media queries, please contact UN Lebanon:
Blanche Baz, bbaz@unicef.org Tel: + 961 3 331874
Hala Habib, hhabib@who.int Tel: +961 3 870459
Nadine R. Abi Zeid Daou, daou@un.org Tel: + 961 76348486
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/107666-un-urges-people-abide-preventive-measures-contain-covid-19-spread-amidst-unprecedented




Date: 18 December 2020
Title: Nine out of ten Syrian refugee families in Lebanon are now living in extreme poverty, UN study says
Content: 18 December 2020
(Beirut, LEBANON) 18 December 2020 – UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) today published the key findings of the 2020 Vulnerability Assessment of Syrian Refugees in Lebanon (VASyR).
The economic downturn, steep inflation, COVID-19 and finally the Beirut blast have pushed vulnerable communities in Lebanon - including Syrian refugees - to the brink, with thousands of families sinking further into poverty and vulnerability.
One of the most concerning indicators of the impact of the compounded crises Syrian refugees have been facing in Lebanon is the sharp increase in the proportion of households living under the extreme poverty line, reaching a staggering 89 per cent in 2020, up from 55 per cent only a year before. They now live on less than LBP 308,728 per person per month – this is less than half the minimum wage in Lebanon.
Mireille Girard, UNHCR Representative in Lebanon, said: “The consecutive crises have affected all communities in Lebanon – Lebanese, refugees, migrants, and others – and the most vulnerable are the hardest hit. The situation of Syrian refugees in Lebanon has been deteriorating for years, but the findings of this year’s survey are a dramatic indication of how difficult it has become for them to make it through another day.” She added: “The key findings are released at a time when Syrian refugees are facing their hardest winter yet in Lebanon, braving the weather elements with very little to stay warm and safe.”
Refugees are accumulating more debt than ever before
The findings of the survey have indicated that the average amount of debt accumulated by households has increased by 18 per cent with an average debt of nearly LBP 1,840,000 per family. The main reason for incurring debt was buying food (93 per cent), followed by rent and medicine at 48 per cent and 34 per cent respectively. Similar to the previous year, 9 out 10 households continue to be in debt, indicating that Syrian refugee households continue to lack enough resources to cover their basic needs.
Half of the Syrian refugee population is now food insecure
Food prices have almost tripled in Lebanon since October 2019, increasing by about 174 per cent. At the same time, income opportunities have drastically shrunk due to the sharp economic slowdown the country has seen over the past twelve months.
Half of Syrian refugee families surveyed were found to be suffering from food insecurity, compared to 28 per cent at the same time in 2019.
Households with inadequate diets have doubled compared to the previous year (25 per cent in 2019 to 49 per cent in 2020), while the number of those resorting to damaging food coping mechanisms such as reducing the number of meals per day or reducing food portions is also on the rise.
Female-headed households are slightly more food insecure than male-headed households, and a far higher proportion of female-headed households (68 per cent) than male-headed households (13 per cent) are using coping strategies categorized as “crisis level” or “emergency level”. Crisis coping strategies include marriage of children under the age of 18, selling productive assets, withdrawing children from school, and reducing expenditure on education and health. Emergency coping strategies include begging, accepting high-risk jobs or sending children to work.
“Refugees are the most vulnerable people in any society and they are no different in Lebanon where the entire population is suffering from multiple crises that are even affecting the country’s middle class,” says Abdallah Al Wardat, WFP Representative and Country Director in Lebanon. “Thanks to generous support from donors, WFP continues to provide assistance to more than 800,000 refugees every month.”
Limited access to remote learning, child labour on the rise
Due to COVID-19 pandemic, public schools in Lebanon were all closed starting March 2020, and remote learning was introduced across the country. Sixty-five per cent of school-aged children (ages 6-17) enrolled in schools were reported to only have attended school in person, before the closure in March 2020. The remaining 35 per cent had some access to remote/distance learning, of whom one third were not able to follow such lessons, mostly due to lack of or insufficient internet.
The percentage of children aged between 5 and 17 years old who are engaged in child labour almost doubled, up from 2.6 per cent in 2019 to 4.4 per cent in 2020. Boys are more involved in child labour (6.9 per cent) than girls (1.6 per cent).
“The situation of children is becoming more and more delicate following the unprecedented crises Lebanon faced this year,” said Yukie Mokuo, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon. “We need to ensure that the most vulnerable children and young people are kept healthy, safe, and learning. They should be kept away from negative coping mechanisms such as child labour.”
Access to civil documentation remains a challenge
Similar to 2019, close to 70 per cent of Syrian refugees continue to lack legal residency. This affects all aspects of refugees’ lives, not only in terms of restricting movement due to increased risk of arrest and detention, but also in posing additional challenges in securing housing and accessing livelihoods.
While improvements in birth registration were noted in 2019, this did not carry over to 2020. In 2020, only 28 per cent of births that had occurred in Lebanon were registered with the Foreigners’ Registry, compared to 30 per cent in 2019 and 21 per cent in 2018. However, almost all births (98 per cent) have the minimum documentation (doctor or midwife certificate).
Tensions between host and refugee communities have decreased
Similar to previous years, competition for jobs was cited by a number of families (40 per cent) as one of the main drivers for tensions between refugee and host communities, however, this is a stark decrease from 2019 (51 per cent). Families citing competition for resources also decreased from 20 per cent in 2019, to only 8 per cent in 2020.
-END-
About VASyR
The Vulnerability Assessment of Syrian Refugees in Lebanon (VASyR) was conducted jointly by UNHCR, WFP, and UNICEF. VASyR 2020 is the eighth version of the annual survey.
The situation in Lebanon has affected all populations living in the country - Lebanese, refugees, migrants and others - with the most vulnerable communities being hit the hardest. While VASyR specifically looks at the Syrian refugee population, UNHCR, WFP and UNICEF are all working closely with the Lebanese authorities and other organizations, including the World Bank, to analyze the impact of the situation on vulnerable Lebanese, and to provide appropriate assistance.
Between August and September 2020, VASyR survey teams visited a nationally representative sample of 4,563 Syrian refugee households, covering all districts across Lebanon.
The survey is the cornerstone of the Lebanon Crisis Response plan (LCRP) and programming for many (I)NGOs, UN and development actors.
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is a global organization dedicated to saving lives, protecting rights and building a better future for refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people. UNHCR works closely with the Government of Lebanon and numerous other national and international partners in providing protection and assistance to refugees and stateless persons, as well as Lebanese communities.
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate and the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change. In Lebanon, WFP in close collaboration with its partners is the largest provider of direct food and non-food assistance to refugees and vulnerable Lebanese communities.
UNICEF works in the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
Media contacts:
UNHCR
Lisa Abou Khaled, +961 71880070, aboukhal@unhcr.org
WFP
Reem Nada, +2010 6663 452, Reem.Nada@wfp.org
Edmond Khoury, +961 81 313 091, Edmond.Khoury@wfp.org
UNICEF
Blanche Baz, +961 3 331874, bbaz@unicef.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/107010-nine-out-ten-syrian-refugee-families-lebanon-are-now-living-extreme-poverty-un-study-says




Date: 17 December 2020
Title: Deepened and Prolonged Poverty Affects Syrian Refugees and their Hosts, Requiring Bold Action
Content: 17 December 2020
The impact of COVID-19 on poverty levels among Syrian refugees and host communities in Jordan, Lebanon and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI) has been severe and profound in 2020. An estimated 4.4 million people in host communities, close to 1 million Syrian refugees and 180,000 internally displaced Iraqis in KRI were newly affected by poverty after the beginning of the crisis, according to a new joint study by the World Bank and the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR). Households who are reliant on the informal labour market and who have significant debts and few assets have been particularly hit hard.
The study entitled “Compounding Misfortunes - Changes in Poverty since the Onset of COVID-19 on Syrian Refugees and Host Communities in Jordan, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and Lebanon” simulates the extent to which Syrian refugees and their hosts have fallen further below international and national poverty lines. The study aims to help better inform the COVID-19 responses of governments, international agencies and others.
In Jordan, the COVID-19 crisis is estimated to have increased poverty by around 38 percentage points (p.p.) among Jordanians, and by 18 p.p. among Syrian refugees, noting that the majority of refugees were already living below the poverty line before the pandemic. In Lebanon, changes in poverty are largely driven by inflation. Poverty increased by around 33 p.p. among the Lebanese community and by as much as 56 p.p. among Syrian refugees. In KRI, host communities, refugees, and internally displaced – many of whom face similar challenges and dependence on informal labour –experienced increases of 24 p.p., 21 p.p., and 28 p.p. respectively.
Funded by the Joint Data Center on Forced Displacement, the study relied on the use of a comparable survey instrument which covers KRI, the whole of Lebanon and three governorates in Jordan with high concentrations of Syrian refugees (Amman, Mafraq, and Zarqa). The study employed dynamic simulations to show changes in poverty on a monthly basis. The impact of COVID-19 is modeled based on macroeconomic changes in various sectors of the economy, informality status, changes in remittances and price levels. In Jordan, the results show a scenario of a second wave of the pandemic, while for Lebanon and KRI, the results show the first wave only. Projections show that heightened poverty will continue well into 2021, even when only the effects of the first wave of the pandemic are considered.
Data from other surveys by the United Nations show the same worrying trend. It is most pronounced in Lebanon, where close to 90 per cent of refugees cannot afford what is considered to be the minimum cost for survival, according to assessments. Meanwhile, poverty among the Lebanese host population has also been significantly rising.
“The living conditions of Syrian refugees and of their host communities are very worrying,” said Ayman Gharaibeh, Director of UNHCR’s Bureau for the Middle East and North Africa. “The human cost of the current crisis is high. The COVID-19 crisis has taken a huge toll on people’s well-being and their prospects for the future. People are cutting down on meals and taking on unsustainable debt, while we also hear about rising child labour. We need to help the most vulnerable to mitigate the devastating consequences. This requires both immediate humanitarian aid, but also support for host countries. The inclusion of refugees in public services such as health and education has certainly helped during the crisis, and it is important to continue on this course.”
Already vulnerable before the pandemic, Syrian refugees and their poorer Jordanian, Lebanese and Iraqi hosts have been left with few coping mechanisms, resulting in difficult choices. Families have been unable to pay for basic household needs and rent, risking eviction. Children have been unable to continue schooling under the lockdowns – limited by distance and home-schooling opportunities, and by the digital divide. Domestic violence linked to the lockdowns has increased, and risks for women and girls exacerbated. In KRI, for instance, refugees have reported an increase in child marriages and child labor during the pandemic.
“The compounded crises affecting countries of the Mashreq region have severely affected vulnerable populations, host and refugees alike, triggering a reversal in human capital gains achieved over the past decade”, said Saroj Kumar Jha, World Bank Mashreq Regional Director. “In addition to emergency health support assistance, there is a need for an integrated approach bringing governments, international donors and other local stakeholders together to address the socio-economic impact of the crisis and help those most severely affected weather the shock”.
The World Bank-UNHCR study suggests that government social safety nets have played an important role in helping many of those affected off-set some of the shock. Similarly, the scaling-up of cash assistance programs by UNHCR and other humanitarian actors also helped provide cash to refugees and other vulnerable populations during the pandemic. However, these programs urgently need to be supported by the international community to allow them to be further scaled-up and expanded.
As more data emerges from various phone surveys and the country macroeconomic outlooks are updated, and a more complete mapping of assistance programs is conducted, the results presented in this study will be revised as part of the second phase of this World Bank – UNHCR collaboration.
With the Syria conflict now in its tenth year, Syrian refugees are the largest refugee population in the world.  Some 5.6 million registered Syrian refugees live in countries in Syria’s neighborhood. Out of those, some 1.8 million live in Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq. The total number of Syrians is even higher when including estimates of those not registered as refugees.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/105553-deepened-and-prolonged-poverty-affects-syrian-refugees-and-their-hosts-requiring-bold-action




Date: 07 December 2020
Title: UN in Lebanon scales up efforts to respond to key gender issues related to the COVID-19 outbreak
Content: 07 December 2020
Women health care workers, social workers, domestic workers and at-home caregivers are the bulk of the front-line responders to COVID-19 and, in Lebanon, women constitute 80 percent of registered nurses and the vast majority of social workers and domestic workers. With continued infection rates across health care workers and front-line staff, it is critical that all front-line workers are supported to remain safe and keep working through personal protection equipment and social assistance. Moreover, since the outbreak of the pandemic, women are reporting lay-offs, and income and wage reductions at higher numbers to men, which could result in a prolonged dip in women’s engagement in the paid economy. Reporting on domestic violence also suggests a dramatic surge since the onset of COVID-19.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103996-un-lebanon-scales-efforts-respond-key-gender-issues-related-covid-19-outbreak




Date: 04 December 2020
Title: EU, UN and WBG launch an 18-month Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework in response to Beirut Port Explosion
Content: 04 December 2020
Beirut, December 4, 2020— Four months after the tragic August 4 explosion that rocked the Port of Beirut, the European Union (EU), the United Nations (UN) and the World Bank Group (WBG) launched today, in a virtual press conference, a landmark ‘people-centered’ response plan to help Lebanon address the urgent needs of the affected population as well as tackle the related governance, recovery and reconstruction challenges.
The 18-month Lebanon Reform, Recovery and Reconstruction Framework (3RF) addresses the urgent needs of the population affected by the explosion that killed over 200 people, injured more than 6,500 and destroyed thousands of homes and properties in the capital city. This comprehensive response to the explosion bridges the immediate humanitarian assistance with medium-term recovery and reconstruction efforts, in order to put Lebanon on a path of sustainable development. It is also guided by the overarching principles of transparency, accountability, and inclusion.
The 3RF aims to achieve three central goals: (1) a people-centered recovery that addresses people’s basic needs, restores their livelihoods, improves social justice for all and ensures participatory decision-making; (2) the reconstruction of critical assets, services, and infrastructure that provides equal access to quality basic services for all and enables sustainable economic recovery; and (3) the implementation of reforms as an essential requirement to restore trust, support reconstruction and improve governance.
Speaking at the conference held at the UN House in Beirut were the Ambassador of the European Union to Lebanon, Ralph Tarraf, the UN Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Lebanon, Najat Rochdi, and the Regional Director of the Middle East Department of the World Bank, Saroj Kumar Jha.
Rochdi said that “the 3RF is fundamentally for the people, it is about meeting their critical needs, safeguarding their basic rights, giving them a voice and a place in policy making”. That’s why it adopted a participatory and inclusive approach that involved all key stakeholder groups, including civil society, from planning through implementation, she added. “The 3RF provides a vision for ‘Building Back Better’, a plan to prevent a full-scale humanitarian catastrophe.”
Tarraf underscored that re-gaining the trust of the Lebanese people in state institutions is imperative for a successful recovery and reconstruction. To that end, the government needs to assume responsibility and urgently adopt credible structural reforms, he said. “Lebanon needs a new governance model that ensures that state institutions serve people’s needs and addresses the multiple crises the country faces,” he added.
The 3RF pursues two parallel tracks: (1) A socio-economic recovery track (“track 1”), that addresses the urgent needs of the most vulnerable populations and small businesses affected by the explosion; and (2) A reform and reconstruction track (“track 2”), focusing on critical reforms to address governance and recovery challenges in Lebanon, which are prerequisites for mobilizing international support for reconstruction beyond the recovery track.
“Channeling support directly to Lebanese people and businesses that have been impacted by the explosion is of utmost importance. To that effect, a Lebanon Financing Facility (LFF) will be set up to receive grant financing from donors for the implementation of the 3RF,” said Saroj Kumar Jha. “The LFF will focus on immediate recovery needs of poor and vulnerable households, support business recovery programs, promote inclusive ways of working with civil society and prepare the ground for reform and reconstruction. It will adopt flexible, non-governmental implementation modalities combined with strong fiduciary monitoring and independent oversight over the use of LFF funds,” he added.
With people at the heart of this response plan, the framework is structured around four strategic pillars: i) improving governance and accountability, ii) jobs and economic opportunities, iii) social protection, inclusion and culture, and iv) improving services and infrastructure. Each pillar identifies strategic objectives and priority areas across both the recovery and the reform and reconstruction tracks.
Going forward, the European Union, the United Nations and the World Bank Group remain committed to stand by the Lebanese people at all times and help them build back a better Lebanon.
***********************
Tatiana Hosny Richa
Press and Information Officer
tatiana.hosny@eeas.europa.eu
Nadine Daou
National Information Officer, Resident Coordinator Office (RCO)/UNIC Beirut
daou@un.org
Zeina El Khalil
External Affairs Officer
zelkhalil@worldbank.org
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/111308-eu-un-and-wbg-launch-18-month-reform-recovery-and-reconstruction-framework-response-beirut




Date: 01 December 2020
Title: RHUH, UN Lebanon, and partners urge individuals and sectors to abide by preventive measures to contain the alarming spread of the coronavirus
Content: 01 December 2020
The Director of Rafik Hariri University Hospital (RHUH), Dr Firass Abiad, together with doctors, nurses and technical staff from the Corona Team, have joined forces with UN Lebanon and partners in sounding the alarm on the disturbing increase of COVID-19 cases in Lebanon, and in urging all individuals and sectors to abide by preventive measures.
“Hospitals in Lebanon will soon reach their full capacity, both in terms of beds in intensive care units and respirators,” said Dr. Abiad. “We can contain the coronavirus, but we must take urgent action. The preventive measures are simple, yet we still see so many people not maintaining safe distances, wearing a mask under their nose, not wearing a mask at all, or telling others that the coronavirus does not exist. Unfortunately, COVID-19 does exist and is infecting over 1,000 people in Lebanon every day. We need to stop it, and we ask people to work with us and help us stop the spread of the virus”, he emphasized.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103167-rhuh-un-lebanon-and-partners-urge-individuals-and-sectors-abide-preventive-measures-contain




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: The United Nations, the Sexual and Gender-Based Violence Taskforce and the National Commission for Lebanese Women launch a 16-day campaign against gender-based violence
Content: 25 November 2020
As we mark 25 years of the adoption of the Beijing Platform for Action the year 2020 is an important milestone for gender equality and work on preventing and ending violence against women and girls. As the world imposed lockdown measures to curb the COVID-19 pandemic, reports showed an alarming increase in the already existing pandemic of violence against women. In Lebanon, also, findings in 2020 showed that the COVID-19 lockdown has  ontributed to an increase in different forms of GBV in particular, as experienced by women and girls. This was exacerbated by the Beirut explosion on August 4, 2020 which has indicated that women and girls are more vulnerable to such shocks, that the risk of violence has increased for them, with an even more limited access to basic services and needs, such as health services and food, and that gender must remain at the forefront of Beirut’s humanitarian response.

(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/102839-united-nations-sexual-and-gender-based-violence-taskforce-and-national-commission-lebanese




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: The United Nations and the National Commission for Lebanese Women Launch a 16-Day Campaign Against Gender-based violence
Content: 25 November 2020
The campaign highlights the pathways and services provided to women and girls in Lebanon who experience GBV and draws attention to the obstacles they encounter, when faced with violence, including discriminatory laws and practices.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103718-united-nations-and-national-commission-lebanese-women-launch-16-day-campaign-against-gender




Date: 24 November 2020
Title: SEE Lebanon, UNIC Beirut organize “3ala Amal” concert to spread hope and peace
Content: 24 November 2020
The concert, which will be broadcasted on LBCI channel and its social media platforms on Wednesday November 25, 2020 at 4:40PM GMT/6:40 PM (Beirut time), features young talented Lebanese artists Farah Nakhoul, Hadi Daou and Cyndi Latti, along with the participation of Sobhi Akoury Martyrs’ children Choir. It will also be live streamed on SEE Lebanon’s Facebook page (@socialeventslb).
The concert, filmed at Seaside Pavillion, also features a message of hope by the UN Deputy Special Coordinator, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Ms. Najat Rochdi. Children of martyrs will recite poems written by famous artist Georges Khabbaz accompanied by a background music composed by Joseph Khalifeh.
This event is supported by:
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103154-see-lebanon-unic-beirut-organize-%E2%80%9C3ala-amal%E2%80%9D-concert-spread-hope-and-peace




Date: 02 November 2020
Title: UN-Habitat and Lebanon’s Real Estate Syndicate join forces to repair houses damaged by the Beirut Blast
Content: 02 November 2020
“The MoU aims at establishing a framework of cooperation within which UN-Habitat and REAL will work jointly to respond to the aftermath of the Beirut Port explosions, by lending their experience, expertise and resources in the housing sector. It also hopes to advance the dialogue on the overall complex housing situation in Lebanon, including ensuring the protection of housing, land and property rights” said Taina Christiansen, Head of Country Programme at UN-Habitat Lebanon.
The collaboration between UN-Habitat and REAL will be implemented with a clear division of tasks and responsibilities. Both parties will work together to provide available data on damaged houses requiring minor repairs, such as replacement of glazing, aluminium and doors; jointly assess identified houses to agree on repair works; and undertake necessary repairs.

(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/102840-un-habitat-and-lebanon%E2%80%99s-real-estate-syndicate-join-forces-repair-houses-damaged-beirut




Date: 24 October 2020
Title: UN Day Message
Content: 24 October 2020
October 24 -the UN Day- this year marks the 75th Anniversary of the United Nations, and 75 years of steadfast partnership between the UN and Lebanon, a founding member.
This anniversary comes at a difficult time for people around the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has reversed hard-fought gains in global social and economic development. Fewer children are able to go to school. People have become poorer, and more afraid. It is a time that reminds us of the absolute value of human dignity and of global solidarity. As in 1945, it is a time that vindicates the need for more and better global cooperation, leadership and responsibility.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103163-un-day-message




Date: 16 October 2020
Title: Statement of United Nations Special Coordinator for Lebanon Ján Kubiš on the occasion of the 1st Anniversary of the start of popular protests in Lebanon
Content: 16 October 2020
A year ago, a massive wave of national protests started, that at some point brought to the streets hundreds of thousands, even millions of Lebanese across the whole country, across all sectarian and political divides and affiliations, with women and young people at the center. Deeply disappointed in the ruling political elites and confessional system of politics and administration that perpetuate corruption and nepotism, they have raised their voice against the corrupt practices of the past and for deep systemic reforms. They have called for justice, transparency, accountability, equal rights, protection and opportunities for all, for a proper and effective governance, functioning democracy and secular civil state. They shattered many taboos and common myths about what they need and want – and what they reject. In this truly national uprising, the people of Lebanon have stood up for their legitimate aspirations and rights with courage and determination, demanding dignified lives for themselves and their families, a brighter future for their country. After this patriotic awakening, the people’s commitment to and yearning for deep reforms and changes continues to be strong, even if the momentum has receded. They have planted the seeds for systemic changes. One year on, their struggle continues.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103538-statement-united-nations-special-coordinator-lebanon-j%C3%A1n-kubi%C5%A1-occasion-1st-anniversary




Date: 14 October 2020
Title: Joint Statement on the Launch of the Israel-Lebanon Maritime Talks
Content: 14 October 2020
Representatives from the governments of Israel, Lebanon, and the United States met on October 14 to launch discussions aimed at reaching consensus on a common Israel-Lebanon maritime boundary. The negotiations were mediated and facilitated by the U.S. team, led by Assistant Secretary David Schenker and Ambassador John Desrocher, and hosted by UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Jan Kubis. The Israeli delegation was headed by Udi Adiri, Director General of the Ministry of Energy. The Lebanese delegation was headed by Brigadier General Bassam Yassine, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Lebanese Armed Forces.
During this initial meeting, the representatives held productive talks and reaffirmed their commitment to continue negotiations later this month.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103168-joint-statement-launch-israel-lebanon-maritime-talks




Date: 08 October 2020
Title: WFP provides cash assistance to 50,000 people affected by the devastating Beirut blast
Content: 08 October 2020
As of mid-September, vulnerable families started to receive a monthly transfer of 1,680,000 LBP under an operation that is expected to last for six months. People most in need were identified based on assessments conducted by WFP and its partners in affected neighbourhoods. WFP will continue to accept applications for assistance through a self-registration website launched earlier in September. WFP’s is carrying out this assistance in close collaboration with the Lebanese Red Cross and with operational support from the Lebanese non-governmental organization SHEILD.
“The blast came as Lebanon was dealing with two other severe shocks: the ongoing economic crisis and the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown measures. Families have been struggling to meet their basic needs even prior to the explosion,” said WFP Representative and Country Director in Lebanon Abdallah Alwardat. “WFP has been on the ground since the days following the blast assisting those most in need. This assistance comes as a continuation of our response after bringing in wheat flour and providing food parcels and hot meals to vulnerable individuals and families.”

(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103547-wfp-provides-cash-assistance-50000-people-affected-devastating-beirut-blast




Date: 30 August 2020
Title: Decisive Action and Change Needed to Reform and Rebuild a Better Lebanon
Content: 30 August 2020
According to the RDNA’s preliminary estimates, the explosion caused between US$3.8 and US$4.6 billion in damage to physical stock, while losses including changes in economic flows as a result of the decline in the output of the economic sectors are estimated to be in the range of US$2.9 and US$3.5 billion. The most severely affected sectors are housing, transport and tangible and intangible cultural assets (including religious and archeological sites, national monuments, theaters, archives, libraries, monuments).
Public sector reconstruction and recovery needs for this year and the next are estimated in the range of US$1.8 and US$2.2 billion, with between US$605 and US$760 million needed in the immediate term until December 2020, and between US$1.18 and US$1.46 billion in the short term for the year 2021. The
transport sector’s needs are the highest, followed by culture and housing.

(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103337-decisive-action-and-change-needed-reform-and-rebuild-better-lebanon




Date: 27 August 2020
Title: The Director General launches from Beirut the international call "Li Beirut" to support education, culture, and heritage
Content: 27 August 2020
As she launched Li Beirut, the Director-General expressed the unflagging solidarity of UNESCO with the people of Lebanon.
“UNESCO, of which Lebanon is a founding member, stands at their side to mobilize the international community and support the city’s recovery for and through culture, heritage and education” Ms Azoulay declared.
The Director-General emphasized UNESCO’s commitment to applying the highest internationally recognized professional and management standards in coordinating support for education and culture in the framework of UN assistance to Lebanon. “I solemnly call for the historic centre to be protected – through administrative measures and appropriate regulations – to prevent property speculation and transactions taking advantage of residents’ distress and
vulnerability,” she added.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103338-director-general-launches-beirut-international-call-li-beirut-support-education-culture-and




Date: 19 August 2020
Title: ESCWA warns: more than half of Lebanon’s population trapped in poverty
Content: 19 August 2020
Extreme poverty has registered a threefold increase from 8% in 2019 to 23% in 2020. The United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) today sounds the alarm in a new policy brief entitled “Poverty in Lebanon: Impact of Multiple Shocks and Call for Solidarity” (attached).
The brief indicates that the total number of poor among the Lebanese population is currently about 2.7 million, taking the upper poverty line as reference (i.e., the number of people living on less than $14 a day). There is thus a significant erosion of the middle class, with middle-income earners now forming less than 40% of the population. The affluent group has also shrunk to a third of its size, from 15% to 5% of the population over the past year.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103686-escwa-warns-more-half-lebanon%E2%80%99s-population-trapped-poverty




Date: 14 August 2020
Title: UN and humanitarian partners launch appeal to support Lebanon recovery
Content: 14 August 2020
The series of devastating explosions on 4 August destroyed most of the port, flattened surrounding neighbourhoods, damaged six hospitals and more than 20 health clinics, and destroyed 120 schools. It left 178 people dead, 6,568 injured, and thousands homeless.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103689-un-and-humanitarian-partners-launch-appeal-support-lebanon-recovery




Date: 11 August 2020
Title: UNESCO commits to rehabilitate damaged schools and support the education sector in the aftermath of the Beirut explosion
Content: 11 August 2020
The education sector was heavily impacted, as the explosion led to the partial or complete destruction of about 70 public schools and 50 private schools in Beirut and neighboring areas. Such devastation threatens to disrupt the new academic year and deprive about 55,000 Lebanese and non-Lebanese students enrolled in these schools of their right to education.
At the request of the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, UNESCO will rehabilitate damaged schools in Beirut and affected areas, and will coordinate the school rehabilitation efforts in Lebanon among education partners to avoid duplication and ensure harmony of interventions.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103691-unesco-commits-rehabilitate-damaged-schools-and-support-education-sector-aftermath-beirut




Date: 09 August 2020
Title: UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, scales up its support to Lebanon
Content: 09 August 2020
Preliminary data shows that the explosion impacted an estimated 13 primary health care facilities and between 6 to 10 hospitals. More comprehensive information will be available as the on-going assessments are completed.
UNFPA is scaling up its efforts to meet the emerging needs of nearly 84,000 women of reproductive age, 48,000 adolescents among the 300,000 who have been displaced due to the catastrophe. An estimated 3,478 women who are currently pregnant will be in need of ante-natal and delivery care services.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103688-unfpa-united-nations-population-fund-scales-its-support-lebanon




Date: 06 August 2020
Title: UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Assesses Immediate Response and Support Needed Following Beirut Blast
Content: 06 August 2020
The United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator and Deputy Special Coordinator for Lebanon, Ms. Najat Rochdi expressed her heartfelt condolences and best wishes for the speedy recovery of the injured on behalf of the humanitarian actors in Lebanon following the terrible loss of life, significant injuries and massive damage to infrastructure caused by the horrific incident in Beirut’s Port on Tuesday 4 August.
“This crisis requires the support of all to surmount the devastating impact of the crisis on the Lebanese people and the country. I would like to commend the mobilization of all UN agencies, NGOs, and INGOs for the support provided so far and for their commitment to assist the Government of Lebanon and Lebanese people to overcome this tragic incident”, said Ms. Rochdi. “I am also deeply moved by the peoples’ solidarity and spontaneous acts of kindness demonstrated by regular citizens who are taking personal initiatives to support others in this time of desperate need,” she added.

(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103550-un-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-assesses-immediate-response-and-support-needed




Date: 05 August 2020
Title: Plane carrying WHO trauma and surgical supplies arrives in Beirut, Lebanon
Content: 05 August 2020
The shipment was airlifted from WHO’s logistics hub in Dubai earlier this afternoon using a plane donated by the Government of the United Arab Emirates, a key WHO partner in health emergency response.
“Our hearts and prayers are with all those affected by this tragic event as we continue our mission to serve all people in Lebanon with life-saving and essential health care services. We are working closely with national health authorities, health partners, and hospitals treating the wounded to identify additional needs and ensure immediate support,” said WHO Representative in Lebanon Dr Iman Shankiti.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103565-plane-carrying-who-trauma-and-surgical-supplies-arrives-beirut-lebanon




Date: 17 July 2020
Title: UN and partners launch updated Lebanon Emergency Appeal requesting for US$482 million to respond to the immediate impact of COVID-19
Content: 17 July 2020
“At this critical juncture for Lebanon, this updated appeal aims at providing support to the government and the people of Lebanon to respond to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The humanitarian interventions for which the appeal seeks funding will address the needs of the most destitute to cope with the deepening crisis”, said Claudio Cordone, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ad interim.
The LEA is based on the principle of a single health response for all those residing in Lebanon, without distinction based on gender, nationality or status.
The updated appeal will further strengthen the health system in Lebanon, including through the procurement of additional testing kits, intensive care unit beds, ventilators and personal protective equipment, as well as the upgrading of ten public hospital laboratories and the continued distribution of hygiene kits. The appeal also includes scaling up support to establish and maintain isolation centres to respond to a further increase in the number of infections. The appeal activities strengthen awareness-raising on the COVID-19 for all population groups, including domestic workers, stateless people and LGBTI.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104247-un-and-partners-launch-updated-lebanon-emergency-appeal-requesting-us482-million-respond




Date: 14 July 2020
Title: UN-Habitat equips vulnerable urban communities in Lebanon with first communal handwashing stations in the fight against COVID-19
Content: 14 July 2020
The specific objective of this handwashing station is to equip vulnerable communities with communal water and sanitation facilities, while shedding light on the importance of handwashing as a critical preventative measure against COVID-19. It also aims to raise awareness on the importance of sound hygiene
practices especially in vulnerable urban settings in Lebanon.
“Awareness, water and proper sanitation are the first line of defence against the spread of COVID-19. Through the provision of communal handwashing stations and awareness raising, this project aims to reduce COVID-19 risks and exposure, targeting vulnerable Lebanese, refugees and migrants, residing in specific urban areas in Lebanon,” said Taina Christiansen, Head of UN-Habitat Country Programme in Lebanon.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103713-un-habitat-equips-vulnerable-urban-communities-lebanon-first-communal-handwashing-stations




Date: 10 July 2020
Title: Bachelet sounds alarm over Lebanon economic crisis, calls for urgent and unified response
Content: 10 July 2020
Vulnerable Lebanese, in addition to other vulnerable groups such as refugees and migrant workers, are increasingly unable to meet their basic needs, she said. “This situation is fast spiralling out of control, with many already destitute and facing starvation as a direct result of this crisis,” Bachelet said.
“The growing economic shocks, coupled with the outbreak of COVID-19, have touched all sections of society. Many have lost jobs, seen their life-savings evaporate before their eyes and lost their homes."
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103963-bachelet-sounds-alarm-over-lebanon-economic-crisis-calls-urgent-and-unified-response




Date: 07 July 2020
Title: Institutions from UN Lebanon, the Lebanese government, and the civil society urge all individuals and sectors to strengthen the preventive measures against COVID-19
Content: 07 July 2020
According to the World Health Organization (WHO) global reports and the Lebanese Ministry of Public Health (MoPH) epidemiological surveillance unit with WHO and ESRI, Lebanon has confirmed 1885 cases, including 36 deaths and 1311 recoveries as of yesterday. This evidence shows that COVID-19 is not over in Lebanon and the number of cases continue to increase.
The COVID-19 global pandemic has hit the country at a time of instability, where the spread of the virus has a direct impact on the physical and mental health of those affected and their relatives and friends, but also indirect effects on the economic and financial situation for the most vulnerable families and the many productive sectors, from national industries to small businesses.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104241-institutions-un-lebanon-lebanese-government-and-civil-society-urge-all-individuals-and




Date: 02 July 2020
Title: International Day of Cooperatives: An occasion to shed the light on the support of FAO to the General Directorate of Cooperatives
Content: 02 July 2020
On the occasion of the International Day for Cooperatives, and in the presence of H.E. Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Abbas Mortada, and the presence of Mr. Jamie Schnurr, Head of Cooperation – Government of Canada in Lebanon, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the General Directorate of Cooperatives (GDC) organized today a meeting highlighting FAO’s support to the General Directorate of Cooperatives within the
framework of the Canada-funded project: “Support to Women’s Cooperatives and Associations in the Agri-food Sector in Lebanon”.
The meeting was also attended by FAO Representative in Lebanon, Mr. Maurice Saade in addition to the project team, women’s cooperatives representatives’, GDC Staff and project partners.
After a welcoming speech by the Director-General of Cooperatives (GDC), Eng. Gloria Abouzeid , H.E the Minister of Agriculture stated that the development of the productive sectors, including agriculture, can be done through cooperatives while strengthening the role of rural women, especially in these circumstances that Lebanon is goingthrough. Minister Mortada stressed the importance of enhancing the capacities of rural women, adding: "communities are based on cooperation. The cooperation is the teamwork that allows the individual to advance."
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103716-international-day-cooperatives-occasion-shed-light-support-fao-general-directorate




Date: 19 June 2020
Title: Secretary-General appoints Najat Rochdi of Morocco as Deputy Special Coordinator and Resident Coordinator for Lebanon
Content: 19 June 2020
Ms. Rochdi succeeds Philippe Lazzarini of Switzerland, who completed his assignment on 31 March. The Secretary-General is grateful for his accomplishments and wishes him continued success in his new appointment as Commissioner-General of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA).
Ms. Rochdi brings over 20 years of experience in development and humanitarian assistance and international coordination in conflict and post-conflict areas, including through her latest assignment as Senior Adviser to the Special Envoy for Syria and Director of Peer to Peer with the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), Geneva.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103966-secretary-general-appoints-najat-rochdi-morocco-deputy-special-coordinator-and-resident




Date: 19 June 2020
Title: Mental Health as a Priority for UN in Lebanon during COVID-19
Content: 19 June 2020
Within this context, the UN in Lebanon worked closely with the National Mental Health Programme in the Ministry of Public Health towards developing a mental health and psychological support action plan as part of the national response to the COVID-19 outbreak, using an integrated approach to mental health.
In line with this action plan and in close coordination with the MOPH-National Mental Health Programme, the UN and partners raised awareness on ways to cope with stress and promote mental Health, integrated mental health awareness within the training materials of health frontlines and non-health front liners,
and trained an average of 380 front liners on guidelines for the provision of remote psychosocial support for children and caregivers with key messages related to stigma, coping with stress and safe identification and referral. 31,288 boys, girls and caregivers were sensitized to promote their psychosocial wellbeing and protection of their children. 5,975 children, parents and primary caregivers were provided with remote community based mental health and psychosocial support. The UN also shared psychosocial support kits for children in hospitals and distributed cognitive games for adults during quarantine. Leaflets and posters on coping with stress for persons in quarantine were also developed in partnership with the National Mental Health Programme.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103974-mental-health-priority-un-lebanon-during-covid-19




Date: 19 June 2020
Title: UN Lebanon Response to the IDAHOBIT Statement Addressed to the United Nations and Partners in Support of the Rights of LGBTIQ+ People
Content: 19 June 2020
In Lebanon, as well as in other parts of the world, the UN continues to work towards the protection of all persons, including sexual and gender minorities. As the crisis unfolds in Lebanon, we recognize that vulnerable groups, especially LGBTIQ+ persons, of all backgrounds and nationalities, are continuing to face human rights abuses and incredible challenges to access basic services, livelihoods, food, shelter, healthcare and protection from sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV).
Under the UN values of leaving no one behind and as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we will continue to ensure that our interventions and services are inclusive of all persons and do not discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or sex characteristics.
In Lebanon, the United Nations, along with our national and international development and humanitarian partners are responding to the needs of LGBTIQ+ persons, adults, youth, and children, in the following ways:
• Advocating for the protection of LGBTIQ+ individuals from violence, discrimination, and criminalization, including repealing national discriminatory laws which violate human rights.
• Supporting national institutions and civil society with assistance to ensure the inclusion of LGBTIQ+ people and provide resources to LGBTIQ+ community-based protection and youth groups.
• Advocating for all LGBTIQ+ persons to be able to safely access public spaces.
• Increasing vulnerable LGBTIQ+ individuals’ access to essential and live saving services, including cash assistance, shelter, healthcare, psychosocial support, including GBV services.
• Strengthening confidential complaint mechanisms to enable accountability for UN and partners.
• Creating enabling environments for diversity and inclusivity within UN agencies’ and partners’ workplaces, including protections for LGBTIQ+ staff members.
• Monitoring the heightened risks of LGBTIQ+ people during the COVID-19 pandemic and accompanying socioeconomic impacts, including around eviction and homelessness, and economic exploitation and employment discrimination.

Further to these efforts, the United Nations and our partners commit to strengthening our support on the above, and expanding our assistance towards LGBTIQ+ people in the following ways:
•  Integrating LGBTIQ+ rights within UN interventions across all sectors, including social protection, health, food security, livelihoods, water, sanitation and hygiene, basic assistance, security and justice; specifically -
• Generate public advocacy around issues of sexual and gender justice and celebrate LGBTIQ+ history month in June each year.
• Conduct regular consultations with LGBTIQ+ individuals and organizations on the needs, gaps, and challenges of LGBTIQ+ people to continue to inform inclusive gender-sensitive programming.
• Develop a comprehensive strategy on LGBTIQ+ issues, approved by the UN Country Team and Humanitarian Country Team.
Under our obligation to support the fulfillment of human rights and meet the humanitarian needs of all people, we stand ready to assist the government and all stakeholders as we collectively work to guarantee the protection and promotion of the rights of LGBTIQ+ people in Lebanon.

Addressed to: (by embassies’ alphabetical order)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/126242-un-lebanon-response-idahobit-statement-addressed-united-nations-and-partners-support-rights




Date: 16 June 2020
Title: World Bank Statement on Lebanon
Content: 16 June 2020
The World Bank wishes to confirm that it does not issue such predictions and that its economic monitoring, analyses and statements on Lebanon are posted on its official Lebanon Country website. The World Bank has been a long-standing partner of Lebanon and the Lebanese people and reiterates its commitment to support its efforts to address the social, financial and economic challenges it is enduring.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104248-world-bank-statement-lebanon




Date: 16 June 2020
Title: UNESCO Beirut and the Regional Center for Educational Planning initiate a regional dialogue on the Future of Education after COVID-19 in presence of UAE Minister of Education
Content: 16 June 2020
While a reflection on probable/anticipated and possible/alternative futures is well underway within UNESCO’s Futures of Education: Learning to Become initiative launched before the crisis in September 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic has made this initiative more timely, giving it a key momentum.
Against this backdrop, UNESCO Regional Bureau for Education in the Arab States (UNESCO Beirut), in partnership with UNESCO HQ and the Regional Center for Educational Planning (RCEP), organized on 16 June 2020 an Arab Region Dialogue on the Future of Education after COVID-19. The webinar aimed to examine the impact of COVID-19 on educational continuity in the Arab region, to reflect on the lessons learnt from the challenges faced during the COVID-19 crisis as we look to the futures of education, and to explore and analyze plans and strategies proposed to frame the vision of education after COVID-19. The webinar is built upon the achievement of a 2017 regional think tank seminar on “Rethinking Education” organized in Sharm EL Sheikh, Egypt and reaffirms the 2016 Cairo Declarations for rethinking education. It also comes in the framework of UNESCO’s Education Response to the COVID-19 crisis and the Organization’s continuous support for Arab Member States during and after COVID-19.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103965-unesco-beirut-and-regional-center-educational-planning-initiate-regional-dialogue-future




Date: 15 June 2020
Title: UN Denies Reports of Withdrawal from Lebanon
Content: 15 June 2020
The UN is not planning to stop its operations and evacuate its staff from Lebanon. On the contrary, the UN support, operations and activities continue, expand and accelerate regardless the challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic. The UN in Lebanon is committed to continue supporting Lebanon and its people also during this challenging period.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104029-un-denies-reports-withdrawal-lebanon




Date: 12 June 2020
Title: Transmission of COVID-19 by asymptomatic cases
Content: 12 June 2020
Accordingly, most recommendations by WHO on personal protective measures (such as use of masks and physical distancing) are based on controlling transmission from symptomatic patients, including patients with mild symptoms who are not easy to identify early on.
Available evidence from contact tracing reported by countries suggests that asymptomatically infected individuals are much less likely to transmit the virus than those who develop symptoms. A subset of studies and data shared by some countries on detailed cluster investigations and contact tracing activities have reported that transmission by asymptomatically-infected individuals are much less likely to transmit the virus than those who develop symptoms.
Comprehensive studies on transmission from asymptomatic patients are difficult to conduct, as they require testing of large population cohorts and more data are needed to better understand and quantified the transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2. WHO is working with countries around the world, and global researchers, to gain better evidence-based understanding of the disease as a whole, including the role of asymptomatic patients in the transmission of the virus.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103712-transmission-covid-19-asymptomatic-cases




Date: 04 June 2020
Title: #MakeItRight: A campaign by UN Lebanon and TBWA\RAAD on World Environment Day
Content: 04 June 2020
However, nature is sending us a message. There is an urgent and existential concern due to recent events around the world from bushfires to locust infestations to a global pandemic. All of those demonstrate the interdependence of humans and the webs of life in which they exist.
The emergence of COVID-19 has underscored the fact that, when we destroy biodiversity, we destroy the system that supports human life. Today, it is estimated that, globally, about one billion cases of illness and millions of deaths occur every year from diseases caused by coronaviruses; and about 75 percent of all emerging infectious diseases in humans are zoonotic, meaning that they are transmitted to people by animals.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103991-makeitright-campaign-un-lebanon-and-tbwaraad-world-environment-day




Date: 22 May 2020
Title: UN combats spread of fake news at local and national levels
Content: 22 May 2020
Tackling fake news is particularly critical in the current Covid-19 pandemic as it is putting lives at risk, including the lives of people stigmatized for carrying the virus or accused of spreading it. This should serve as a wakeup call for all responsible societies to learn how to deal with the spread and effects of fake news in future challenges.
“Misinformation during times of a health crisis can spread fear and stigmatization. It can also leave children, families and communities unprotected and more vulnerable to the virus”, said UNICEF Lebanon Representative Yukie Mokuo. “We ask everyone to seek accurate information from verified sources and to you refrain from sharing information from untrustworthy or unverified sources”.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103995-un-combats-spread-fake-news-local-and-national-levels




Date: 20 May 2020
Title: UNIDO launches the safety guidelines for the industrial sector in response to COVID-19
Content: 20 May 2020
During his intervention, H.E. Dr. Imad Hoballah stated his “pleasure to launch this activity together, initiating a new phase of scientific and practical measures to confront the Corona epidemic in factories.” He also stressed the joint efforts and coordination among all the ministries under the umbrella of the Prime Minister H.E Dr. Hassan Diab.
On his turn, H.E. Dr. Hamad Hassan mentioned that "until the vaccine is discovered and we are more familiar with the characteristics of this virus, we must change some of our social habits to protect our society”. On the safety guidelines he added “this activity comes as a result of cooperation between different sectors that take care of different social interests with adoption of collateral health controls”.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104030-unido-launches-safety-guidelines-industrial-sector-response-covid-19




Date: 15 May 2020
Title: Productive Sectors Development Essential for Achieving #TheLebanonWeWant
Content: 15 May 2020
Productive sectors’ development will support early recovery and job creation while building resilience and shifting the country’s trajectory towards sustainable growth and inclusive development in the long term.
“Unemployment, inequality, poverty and domestic violence are rising, and risk reversing the progress made on Sustainable Development Goals in Lebanon. Productive Sectors development has been a long-standing priority for the UN in Lebanon and our commitment remains even higher today given their important role in leading the economic recovery and the overall COVID-19 response,” said Claudio Cordone, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ad interim in Lebanon.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103997-productive-sectors-development-essential-achieving-thelebanonwewant




Date: 13 May 2020
Title: Statement of the International Support Group
Content: 13 May 2020
Recognizing the importance of domestic political support necessary for successful conduct and rapid completion of negotiations with the IMF, the ISG encourages the Government of Lebanon to engage all relevant stakeholders, most importantly the Lebanese people in consultations on the contents of the plan and ways to expedite its implementation. Equally, the ISG encourages the Government and Parliament to work together in creating the necessary conditions for timely implementation of the needed reforms and to ensure full transparency and accountability as demanded by the citizens of Lebanon. Recalling the statement of the International Support Group meeting in Paris on 11 December 2019 and on the basis of the necessary reforms, including the implementation of the commitments made in the framework of the CEDRE Conference, the ISG expresses support to Lebanon to help it overcome the current economic, monetary, and fiscal crisis and to address economic, social, security, humanitarian challenges, as well as the impact of COVID-19 facing the country, and calls upon the international community, including international organizations and financial institutions, to support Lebanon as it seeks to address the current crisis.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103707-statement-international-support-group




Date: 07 May 2020
Title: UN and partners in Lebanon launch an Emergency Appeal requesting for US$350 million to respond to the immediate impact of COVID-19
Content: 07 May 2020
“Through this appeal, the UN and partners are refocusing their work to best support the government and the people in Lebanon in the current circumstances”, said the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ad interim, Mr. Claudio Cordone. “It is crucial to secure the requested funds so that those most in need can receive urgent humanitarian assistance”.
The onset of the COVID-19 in Lebanon has come at an extraordinarily difficult time compounding pre-existing vulnerabilities. The outbreak has added pressure to an already overburdened and under-resourced national health system.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103944-un-and-partners-lebanon-launch-emergency-appeal-requesting-us350-million-respond-immediate




Date: 05 May 2020
Title: Collaboration between the European Union and WHO delivers essential medications to people in need in Lebanon
Content: 05 May 2020
This announcement took place during the Ambassador’s visit to the chronic diseases medications warehouse that is managed by the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), during a handover of medications to primary healthcare facilities.
The COVID-19 pandemic comes at a time where the Lebanese people and others in Lebanon are affected by a severe socio-economic crisis. With the decrease in purchasing power and increase in unemployment rates, coupled with a global economic crisis precipitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, more people are struggling to make ends meet. Unmet needs in healthcare can rapidly increase mortality and morbidity and jeopardize the health-related Sustainable Development Goals.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104028-collaboration-between-european-union-and-who-delivers-essential-medications-people-need




Date: 01 May 2020
Title: UN supports journalists to counter disinformation, fake news and ensure their safety during COVID-19
Content: 01 May 2020
In the current crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic, media workers are as vital as other essential professionals. Accurate information saves lives. In times of crises, news media, data journalism, fact checkers and investigative reporting shed light, whereas disinformation, spreads darkness, fear and a chain of bad decisions. In fulfilling their role, journalists around the world are to cope with unprecedented professional challenges ranging from switching to health-coverage for those who had no previous specialization, to ensuring their own health safety, while seeking to counter the spread of misinformation in what has been defined the first ‘disinfodemic’.
Against this backdrop, and since the outbreak of the pandemic, the UN in Lebanon scaled up efforts to counter the growing surge of misinformation that is impeding access to trustworthy sources and reliable information. Coining the massive disinformation around COVID-19 as a “disinfodemic”, the UN in Lebanon embarked on a series of initiatives aimed at working for truth and combating fake news.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103999-un-supports-journalists-counter-disinformation-fake-news-and-ensure-their-safety-during




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: Engaging Religious Leaders in the Fight Against COVID19
Content: 24 April 2020
Ramadan brings together families and friends to break their fast, however in the current circumstances, gatherings are to be avoided in order to protect loved ones. Religious leaders have a big role to play in engaging communities in the fight against COVID19. We need to join efforts during this Holy month and show solidarity with the communities we serve.
As the pandemic continues, we are particularly aware of the increased vulnerability of children, families and in particular girls. Children are facing a range of challenges to their health and safety: school closures, high levels of emotional distress, higher risks of violence and increased food insecurity. We are also
seeing an increase in the number of orphans and in the incidence of other diseases due to the break in vaccination services. We are also seeing a growing need for financial and material support for households hardest hit by loss of income and resulting strains.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104037-engaging-religious-leaders-fight-against-covid19




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: UN supports education authorities in Lebanon to ensure continuity of education, inclusion and equity for children and young people
Content: 24 April 2020
School closure has widened learning inequalities, affecting the most vulnerable children and youth disproportionately. In this context, the UN urged collective action to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on children and youth and is providing support to the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE) and the Ministry of Agriculture, among other partners in Lebanon, by developing alternative solutions to school closure to ensure that learning never stops.
In close collaboration with MEHE, UN agencies are assisting in preparing and deploying inclusive distance learning solutions, utilizing hi-tech, low-tech and no-tech approaches. Distance learning support includes activities for the production of pre-primary and basic education lessons, as well as well-being materials, the Gender-Based Violence approach and health awareness for students and parents.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103993-un-supports-education-authorities-lebanon-ensure-continuity-education-inclusion-and-equity




Date: 22 April 2020
Title: The Ministry of Information partners with WHO, UNICEF, and UNDP to counter the spread of COVID-19 misinformation in Lebanon
Content: 22 April 2020
Minister of Information, Dr. Manal Abdel Samad stressed on the many risks linked to fake news: “yesterday, the drop of the coronavirus infections was accompanied by a very dangerous rumour, which is the end of the Corona pandemic in Lebanon. This is a simple sample of misinformation that creates confusion and false hope. Today we announce a new partnership with the UN organizations: World Health Organization, UNICEF, the United Nations Development Program, to tackle the threat of fake news”.
She added: "our partnership includes several phases: a media campaign that we launched today along with a rumour log and at a later stage a website will be launched to verify information."
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104036-ministry-information-partners-who-unicef-and-undp-counter-spread-covid-19-misinformation




Date: 19 April 2020
Title: The Secretary General statement on gender-based violence & COVID19
Content: 19 April 2020
For many women and girls, the threat looms largest where they should be safest.
In their own homes.
And so I make a new appeal today for peace at home — and in homes — around the world.
We know lockdowns and quarantines are essential to suppressing COVID-19. But they can trap women with abusive partners.
Over the past weeks as economic and social pressures and fear have grown, we have seen a horrifying global surge in domestic violence.
In some countries, the number of women calling support services has doubled.
Meanwhile, healthcare providers and police are overwhelmed and understaffed.
Local support groups are paralyzed or short of funds. Some domestic violence shelters are closed; others are full.
I urge all governments to make the prevention and redress of violence against women a key part of their national response plans for COVID-19.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104039-secretary-general-statement-gender-based-violence-covid19




Date: 15 April 2020
Title: Open letter from the regional directors of UNDP, UN Women, UNFPA, and ESCWA in the Arab States Region to governments in the region
Content: 15 April 2020
Many countries of the region have implemented strict movement restrictions, including curfews, to address the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, we need to be conscious of the need to ‘do no harm’. We have seen reductions in services for survivors of Domestic Violence across the region and, in some countries, we have witnessed large increases in the numbers of calls to hotlines or other support services.
We urge governments to strengthen already existing services and to provide alternative solutions to ensure the security and safety of women and girls inside their homes and to assist survivors during this time, including augmenting hotline access, ensuring remote case management, and providing essential health, social services and justice and policing, as courts in some countries of the region have been forced to close. Inclusive solutions must be designed to reach the women furthest behind and be survivor-centred, while referral pathways should be updated to reflect the current situation.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103725-open-letter-regional-directors-undp-un-women-unfpa-and-escwa-arab-states-region-governments




Date: 14 April 2020
Title: ILO in Lebanon issues guidance to families and other employers of migrant workers in light of COVID-19
Content: 14 April 2020
The brief explains how migrant workers are particularly vulnerable during the COVID-19 health emergency. It focuses on migrant domestic workers, who in Lebanon are mainly employed inside people’s homes.
Many migrant workers in Lebanon now face conditions that greatly increase their risk of entering forced or bonded labour, the brief warns. These include a reduction or non-payment of wages, job termination without the ability to return home, an increased workload, reduced physical mobility, an inability to contact friends and family, and an inability to afford hygiene products and a healthy diet. For some of these workers, it remains unclear whether they will
be able to receive treatment if they should become ill with COVID-19.
The brief recommends practical actions for employers to take to safeguard the rights and wellbeing of migrant workers, in line with the principles of integrity, gender equality and respect for diversity, all of which contribute to peace, social justice and stability in societies.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104034-ilo-lebanon-issues-guidance-families-and-other-employers-migrant-workers-light-covid-19




Date: 09 April 2020
Title: United Nations Response to COVID-19 Outbreak in Lebanon
Content: 09 April 2020
Joining hands with local partners, including governmental entities and civil society, the UN is working on preventing and containing the transmission of the virus and avoiding an overstretching of the health system, as well as responding to rising socio-economic challenges generated by the economic and financial crisis now exacerbated by the health emergency.
“Lebanon is going through an unprecedented emergency, requiring all of us to ramp up our actions to contain and stop the transmission of the virus”, said Acting UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Claudio Cordone. “The UN family in Lebanon has geared its efforts to support the government and is working with partners to respond to this pandemic. Today, more than ever, coordinated and decisive action is key to attenuate the impact of this crisis on all those throughout Lebanon who are hit the hardest, namely the poorest and the most vulnerable,” Cordone added.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103723-united-nations-response-covid-19-outbreak-lebanon




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: World Health Day 2020: Let’s show our support for nurses and midwives
Content: 07 April 2020
Nurses and midwives are the backbone of any health system and key to the achievement of universal health coverage. They play a critical role in health promotion, disease prevention and the delivery of care in all settings. It is estimated that an additional 9 million nurses and midwives are needed if the world is to achieve universal health coverage by 2030.
In the midst of this global coronavirus pandemic, nurses and other health workers are at the forefront of the COVID-19 response, providing high quality, respectful treatment and care, leading community dialogue to address fears and questions and, in some instances, collecting data for clinical studies. They
often work in challenging circumstances providing care to patients and risking their own lives while they fight for the lives of others. “The current situation makes the theme of the World Health Day and the International Year of the Nurse and Midwife even more relevant and meaningful as we acknowledge
and pay tribute to all health workers. We need to ensure that all nurses and midwives operate in an environment where they are safe from harm, including those providing services in countries in emergency. And we need to ensure that they have access to a functioning health care service,” said Dr Ahmed Al-Mandhari, WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104250-world-health-day-2020-let%E2%80%99s-show-our-support-nurses-and-midwives




Date: 06 April 2020
Title: UNICEF is providing supplies and technical support to fight COVID-19 in Lebanon
Content: 06 April 2020
UNICEF has procured and delivered medical supplies to 194 Primary Health Care Centres to support the healthcare frontline workers and population at risk in Lebanon. This includes 650,000 pairs of gloves, 830,000 surgical masks, 34,000 N95 respirator masks, 26,750 gowns and 3,000 infra-red thermometers, among other health items. UNICEF has also provided detergent, soap and bleach to 260 social development centres and 1,200 public schools. Additional orders have been received and many more supplies will be delivered in the coming weeks. UNICEF is also supporting trainings that have reached more than 2,250 non-health actors from governmental institutions, NGO, syndicates and unions, security forces and scouts to strengthen their knowledge and skills on the prevention measures, self-isolation and protection of sick people.
These results are part of UNICEF COVID-19 response in partnership with governmental, UN and civil society partners, including the Ministry of Public Health (MoPH) and the Disaster Risk Management Unit (DRM), municipalities, WHO, UNHCR, the Lebanese Red Cross and Balamand University.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104246-unicef-providing-supplies-and-technical-support-fight-covid-19-lebanon




Date: 06 April 2020
Title: UNHCR Lebanon statement on the situation of Syrian refugees
Content: 06 April 2020
UNCHR is deeply distraught by the death of a Syrian refugee man who took his own life in the Bekaa on Sunday 5 April. We stand with his family and loved ones and will accompany them as much as possible during this difficult time.
The situation of refugees - already hardly hit by the economic crisis Lebanon is suffering from - has been further aggravated by the COVID-19 related confinement. The situation is having a severe impact on refugees’ access to livelihoods, morale, and ability to meet their basic survival needs like rent, food, and medicine, as it is for vulnerable Lebanese communities.
Since the beginning of the COVID-19 outbreak, UNHCR teams have been working around the clock to provide the necessary support for refugees and to contain the spread of the virus. We are working closely with our humanitarian partners to expand financial assistance to the most affected refugee and Lebanese communities during this exceptionally difficult period, and are coordinating closely with our donors to secure the urgently needed funds that will enable us to deliver this lifeline.
At a time when the world is coming together in the fight against COVID-19 and its economic repercussions, it is essential to ensure that vulnerable communities - including refugees - receive the necessary support, material and psycho-social. UNHCR has strengthened its call centre and hotline capacity to ensure that we are as present as possible to respond to the needs and queries of refugees, and to provide counseling.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104242-unhcr-lebanon-statement-situation-syrian-refugees




Date: 02 April 2020
Title: World Bank Deploys US$40 Million in Emergency Response to Help Lebanon Face The Coronavirus Outbreak
Content: 02 April 2020
"This outbreak comes at a time when Lebanon’s economy is already going through the worst economic crisis in recent history and the Government of Lebanon has limited resources to respond," said Saroj Kumar Jha, World Bank Mashreq Regional Director. "The World Bank stands ready to support Lebanon’s efforts to contain the rapid spread of the virus and help the Lebanese people in these particularly challenging times."
The COVID-19 outbreak is stressing an already strained health sector and setting back Lebanon’s efforts in its fight against poverty. There are concerns that the outbreak will particularly hit the poor and the refugee population. The Government of Lebanon (GoL) has already taken several steps to mitigate the impact of the epidemic. It has prepared a COVID-19 Health Sector Response Plan, mobilized resources to equip additional public hospitals with critically-needed medical equipment, and strengthened risk communication to the population. Despite these efforts, the unmet needs are immense, and Lebanon is under-equipped to respond to such a global pandemic.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104252-world-bank-deploys-us40-million-emergency-response-help-lebanon-face-coronavirus-outbreak




Date: 19 March 2020
Title: Statement of UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Jan Kubis following his Meeting with His Excellency Foreign Minister Nassif Hitti
Content: 19 March 2020
I was very glad to meet with His Excellency, the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
The United Nations – the leadership both here in the country but also in New York – are strongly committed to assist Lebanon, notably during this time of challenges and crises that have been exacerbated by the coronavirus.
I came to react and respond to the appeal coming from the Government of Lebanon that was addressed to all the international partners to provide assistance. I came with a message from the Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, with whom the leadership of the UN in Lebanon had a videoconference yesterday evening. The message is the UN system is here to help – the different parts of the UN system depending on their mandates. On coronavirus, it is notably under the leadership of the World Health Organization.
We together along with the World Bank are very actively working on how to increase assistance to the most vulnerable parts of the population and on how to help Lebanon increase its social safety net. We are working and providing expertise and assistance with regards to the economic rescue plan. We contribute in many areas of humanitarian work.
That is the message of the Secretary-General, and I was very happy to share it with His Excellency. All international partners are also eagerly waiting for the framework of a comprehensive economic rescue plan that should come from the Government soonest. It should help us organize ourselves and provide assistance for Lebanon even better. It was a good, productive exchange of views.
Thank you very much.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103709-statement-un-special-coordinator-lebanon-jan-kubis-following-his-meeting-his-excellency




Date: 08 March 2020
Title: Statement of UN Special Coordinator for Lebanon Jan Kubis on International Women’s Day 2020
Content: 08 March 2020
Yet, the contributions of women to the social, economic, political, legal, academic and all other spheres in Lebanon can only attain its optimal level once the barriers still hindering gender parity in leadership positions are lifted. The United Nations has already achieved gender parity in its senior management team, and work is ongoing to apply that to the Organization’s entire ranks. Similarly, Lebanon is encouraged to take measures to ensure women are more involved and allowed to actively take part in the realization of change and in shaping the image of their country’s future through greater inclusion and participation in decision-making processes.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104040-statement-un-special-coordinator-lebanon-jan-kubis-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-2020




Date: 08 March 2020
Title: The United Nations in Lebanon celebrates International Women’s Day
Content: 08 March 2020
The “Global Gender Gap Report 2019” released by the World Economic Forum ranks Lebanon 145th out of 153 countries in its Global Gender Equality Index. On this International Women’s Day, the UN and its partners recognize the progress made in Lebanon but draw attention to how entrenched gender inequalities are in the country’s legislations and practices, and how much progress is needed to break the vicious cycle of gender-based violence and inequality.
To recognize International Women’s Day, the United Nations System in Lebanon, coordinated by UN Women, comes together around a joint campaign building on the Global IWD’s theme titled I am Generation Equality: Realizing Women’s Rights. The campaign is aligned with UN Women’s new multigenerational campaign, Generation Equality, and marks the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted in 1995.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104032-united-nations-lebanon-celebrates-international-women%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 06 March 2020
Title: Spreading facts, not fear, in the fight against coronavirus in Lebanon
Content: 06 March 2020
Despite massive dissemination of factual information and the effective protection measures, misleading information is sowing fear and confusion among communities. Moreover, some rumors have been spread about UNICEF through WhatsApp, including a “bulletin from UNICEF” with wrong information and a message about “UNICEF employees going to visit families at their houses to conduct corona virus screening”. UNICEF is neither sending WhatsApp messages, nor conducting a door-to-door screening against coronavirus and the communities should beware of strangers impersonating UNICEF staff for any medical screening.
UNICEF team co-lead the national Risk communication and Community Engagement group on COVID-19, which brings together the Government, the United Nations and non-governmental organizations. Thus, UNICEF will continue to disseminate the information that can help people in Lebanon to prevent
the infection and in support of the national response to control the spread of the virus. Communication efforts are focused on contributing to reduce misinformation, providing the communities, schools, health centers and the public with vital information around the symptoms, transmission, and prevention of COVID-19.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104245-spreading-facts-not-fear-fight-against-coronavirus-lebanon




Date: 02 March 2020
Title: The UN Migration Agency (IOM) Lebanon launched an executive professional training program, with funds from the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation and in collaboration with the Lebanese University
Content: 02 March 2020
The course will run from February – May 2020 and will train 28 participants who are currently involved in helping people affected by the Syrian conflict, in Lebanon (Syrian displaced population and Lebanese host communities). International and national experts will teach the modular course to provide a diverse overview of topics related to the relationship between psychosocial support, dialogue and social cohesion in a conflict-affected environment. Teaching will take place every second weekend (Fridays included) to facilitate the participation of working professionals.
The course is part of IOM’s psychosocial programme: “Enhancing the Psychosocial Wellbeing of Displaced and Hosting Communities in Lebanon Affected by the Syrian Crisis”. The course will help participants to identify and conceptualize emotional and mental threats to individuals caused by displacement, war and migration; adopt creative approaches to strengthen the community fabric; counsel war-affected individuals; and develop conflict resolution and mediation skills. The ultimate aim is for the participants to apply this crucial understanding to their daily work with affected communities within their respective NGOs or SDCs.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104025-un-migration-agency-iom-lebanon-launched-executive-professional-training-program-funds




Date: 24 February 2020
Title: IOM organized a study tour to the Netherlands for a Lebanese delegation to explore latest developments in the field of counter-trafficking response
Content: 24 February 2020
This initiative falls within the call for action campaign that aims at creating an enabling environment to prevent human trafficking, rescue and restore human dignity through the amendment of law 164/2011.
This action was possible thanks to IOM leadership in Lebanon and the Netherlands with support from senior regional thematic specialist in Cairo, embassies of the Netherlands in Beirut and Lebanon to the Hague with financial support from the government of the Netherlands.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104026-iom-organized-study-tour-netherlands-lebanese-delegation-explore-latest-developments-field




Date: 19 February 2020
Title: UNICEF provides cash support to more than 40,000 Lebanese children in the context of the current crisis
Content: 19 February 2020
Working with the National Poverty Targeting Program (NPTP), the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA), the Prime Minister’s Office and the World Food Programme (WFP), UNICEF is targeting the poorest Lebanese households to receive a cash grant of between 160,000 LBP and 640,000 LBP. The grant is provided according to the number of children in the household, from zero up to six, supporting therefore more than 40,000 Lebanese children at risk due to the ongoing harsh economic conditions.
“Children are now most vulnerable, in the midst of the current economic crisis in Lebanon,” said Yukie Mokuo, UNICEF Representative to Lebanon. “As prices rise and people lose their jobs, everyone is affected, particularly in the poorest communities. While we continue to support the Government to develop a National Social Protection Policy, we also wanted to act fast and provide immediate support, as far as our resources would allow, to some of the poorest households in the country”.
(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104243-unicef-provides-cash-support-more-40000-lebanese-children-context-current-crisis




Date: 12 February 2020
Title: Joint Statement of the International Support Group for Lebanon
Content: 12 February 2020
Recalling the statements of the ISG meeting in Paris on 11 December 2019 and in Beirut on 23 January 2020 the ISG underlines the importance of action to regain the trust of the Lebanese people and that of the international community and unlock future international assistance for Lebanon. The ISG appeals to all political forces and leaders of Lebanon to prioritize their support for reforms when in the national interest and for the benefit of the people and the country.
The ISG reaffirms its willingness to support Lebanon as it undertakes efforts to restore economic stability, credibility of the financial sector, a critical review of the 2020 budget to ensure sustainability, implementation of key sectoral reforms like the energy sector, reforms of state-owned enterprises to ensure efficiency and consumer benefit, and the passing and implementing of effective procurement laws. The ISG also reaffirms its willingness to support credible efforts by government leaders to tackle corruption and combat tax evasion, including adoption and implementation of an anti-corruption national strategy, the anti-corruption agency law and judicial reform, and other measures that ensure concrete changes are made and guarantee both transparency and full accountability.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103710-joint-statement-international-support-group-lebanon




Date: 29 January 2020
Title: WHO Lebanon Confirms No Reported Coronavirus Cases in Lebanon
Content: 29 January 2020
The Ministry of Public Health is monitoring the potential patients through temperature monitoring system at the Airport, and distributing the risk checklist to all passengers coming directly or indirectly from countries where the virus is confirmed.
Any patient suspected to be exposed will be followed-up by phone by the Communicable Diseases department at the MOPH.
WHO Lebanon is following-up with National reference laboratory at the Rafik Hariri University Hospital to obtain the coronavirus primers from WHO to be able to confirm cases.
All hospitals have received the detailed guidance for diagnosis, prevention and care related to the coronavirus. The patient and staff safety at The Rafik Hariri University Hospital is ensured through a four-bed capacity for isolation, and Personal Protected Equipment, as well as trained staff.

(To read the text in its entirety, please download the PDF below)
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103704-who-lebanon-confirms-no-reported-coronavirus-cases-lebanon




Date: 21 January 2020
Title: On excessive use of force in Lebanon
Content: 21 January 2020
Over the weekend, protesters in Beirut tried to invade the Parliament building; and threw rocks, traffic signs, firecrackers, and other debris at Internal Security Forces (ISF). Several ATMs, bank offices and shops were vandalised and public property destroyed.
Officers from the ISF responded with tear gas, water cannon and rubber bullets. Several reports of use of force violations were received. According to reliable sources, at least four young men were shot at close range with rubber bullets leading to severe and irreversible damage to their eyes.
According to combined data of the Lebanese Red Cross and Civil Defence, at least 377 people - 142 of whom were law enforcement officers - were injured on Saturday, 18 January. A further 90 people were injured the following day.
UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/103964-excessive-use-force-lebanon




Date: 10 January 2020
Title: Statement by Yukie Mokuo, UNICEF Representative in Lebanon
Content: 10 January 2020
The situation is deteriorating and increasing the challenges for all children, especially those in families already living in poverty.
According to the available estimates, more than one in four Lebanese families live in poverty, and the crisis is now impacting many families, and much more so children than adults. Exacerbation of poverty is also expected among other vulnerable households in Lebanon.
Increasing poverty can affect girls and boys in many ways, including harming their nutrition, education and health, as well as having long-term impacts on their emotional and social development, future potential and wellbeing.

UN Resident Coordinator's Office
UN House, Riad El Solh Square
Beirut 11-8575 Lebanon
URL: https://lebanon.un.org/en/104042-statement-yukie-mokuo-unicef-representative-lebanon




