Date: 12 March 2024
Title: STATEMENT BY SRSG BATHILY AND DSRSG RC/HC GAGNON ON THE SIX-MONTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE DEVASTATING FLOODS IN DERNA AND AFFECTED AREAS
Content: 12 March 2024
Six months after Storm Daniel and devastating floods struck the city of Derna
Tripoli - 11 March – Six months after Storm Daniel and devastating floods struck the city of Derna and the surrounding areas in eastern Libya, our thoughts and condolences remain with the people and communities affected by this disaster.
We have witnessed the outstanding efforts of local people to rebuild and enhance their communities and commend their remarkable resilience and strength.
On this anniversary, we call on Libyan authorities and actors to collectively take forward reconstruction that focuses on the needs and best interests of the people whose lives were so severely affected by the floods.
We underscore the need for a coordinated national platform for reconstruction, for the release of funds for long-term reconstruction efforts, and for their transparent management and distribution with effective oversight and accountability to the Libyan people. The UN reaffirms its commitment to supporting a coordinated national platform for inclusive and resilient recovery that prioritizes the livelihoods and efforts of affected people.
Since the floods, the United Nations in Libya has been working in Derna and the affected municipalities in coordination with local and national authorities, humanitarian agencies and international partners, to provide assistance and support to the affected people.
To date, the UN in Libya and its humanitarian partners have reached 247,000 people, with emergency humanitarian assistance, including shelter, clean water, food, educational support, medical and psycho-social support.
The United Nations in Libya remains committed to supporting the people of Derna and the surrounding areas with their recovery as the humanitarian response concludes. We will continue to work closely with local and international partners to assist in rebuilding lives and communities, promoting sustainable development, and advocating for the rights and well-being of all affected people.
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/263135-statement-srsg-bathily-and-dsrsg-rchc-gagnon-six-month-anniversary-devastating-floods-derna




Date: 04 March 2024
Title: Netherlands, UNDP and UNSMIL join forces to support families of missing persons in Libya
Content: 04 March 2024
Tripoli, 03/March/2024 – Today, The Embassy of the Netherlands in Libya and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in collaboration with the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL), signed a new agreement to address the issue of missing persons in Libya. This three-year project aims to support meaningful victim participation and build responsive justice and security sector institutions.
With thousands of families still searching for their loved ones, the need for coordination and a comprehensive approach to address the issue of missing persons in Libya is crucial. Many victims are in need of support to effectively partake in national reconciliation and peacebuilding efforts.

This project addresses these challenges by providing technical assistance and capacity-building to Libyan authorities and civil society organizations. It aims to strengthen the legal and institutional framework for addressing the issue of missing persons, enhance the capacities of forensic and investigative authorities, and support the establishment of a comprehensive and victim-centred approach to address the needs of families of the missing.

Joost Klarenbeek, Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to Libya, said “the disappearance of a loved one is a horrific experience, and without knowing the truth about what happened to them, it is very difficult for family members to move forward. With our support to this project, we hope to contribute to truth and justice, for the benefit of the families and for the benefit of Libya’s transition.”

“Addressing the issue of missing persons in Libya is crucial for national reconciliation,” said Christopher Laker, UNDP Resident Representative. “This partnership with the Netherlands represents a significant step forward in our efforts to support victims and their families and to build a more peaceful, just, and inclusive Libya.”

"The issue of missing persons in Libya is longstanding; families of those missing have the right to know the fate and whereabouts of their loved ones and to accountability,” stressed UNSMIL's director of human rights and rule of law, Suki Nagra. “The United Nations aims to strengthen national capacities to advance human rights and support transitional justice through this project," she added.

The Netherlands, UNDP and UNSMIL partnership underscores their joint commitment to human rights in Libya. This initiative aims to lay the groundwork for lasting peace and reconciliation, ensuring a future where justice and human dignity are at the forefront of Libya’s development.

***

For related photos, please visit: Link
For more information, or media interviews please contact: media.ly@undp.org
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/262236-netherlands-undp-and-unsmil-join-forces-support-families-missing-persons-libya




Date: 25 January 2024
Title: JOINT WORLD BANK, EU, UN REPORT ASSESSES DAMAGES CAUSED BY CATASTROPHIC FLOODING IN LIBYA
Content: 25 January 2024
WASHINGTON, January 24, 2024 — Reconstruction and recovery needs following the catastrophic flooding in eastern Libya last September are estimated at $1.8 billion, according to a new report released today by the World Bank, the United Nations, and the European Union. The disaster impacted approximately 1.5 million people – 22 per cent of Libya’s population – living in the coastal and inland cities that were hardest hit.
The Libya Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment (RDNA) analyses damages and losses – as well as recovery and reconstruction needs – using a globally established methodology across almost all sectors of the Libyan economy. It finds the greatest impact has been on housing, the environment, Libya’s cultural heritage, as well as the transportation and water sectors. Housing was severely hit, with an estimated more than 18,500 houses destroyed or damaged, equivalent to seven per cent of the country’s housing stock, damaged or destroyed. The report estimates 70 per cent of the needed reconstruction costs would be for infrastructure, with housing as the largest component.
In addition to outlining the recovery and reconstruction needs, the RDNA analyses the cost of physical damages caused by the flooding and the economic losses in its aftermath. Damages and losses are estimated at $1.03 and $.62 billion, respectively. The $1.65 billion total of damages and losses account for 3.6 per cent of Libya’s GDP in 2022.
The report looks at the impact of the disaster on the well-being of people in Libya. Nearly 44,800 people were initially displaced including 16,000 children. Access to healthcare and education has deteriorated, and food insecurity has increased in the affected areas. The most vulnerable people – including women, children, persons with disabilities, migrants, and elderly people – were particularly affected.
“Storm Daniel and the catastrophic floods that followed had a devastating, tragic impact on so many people in Libya who lost family members, their homes, and livelihoods. We hope this damage and needs assessment will inform recovery and reconstruction efforts that are inclusive, coordinated and help to build a more resilient future for people in Libya,” said Jesko Hentschel, Country Director for the Maghreb and Malta at the World Bank.
The assessment covers 20 municipalities, with an in-depth analysis of the five most affected cities (Derna, Soussa, Al-Bahda, Al-Marj, and Shahhat) where 85 per cent of the damages and losses occurred. It emphasizes the urgent need to focus recovery efforts in these areas.
Based on international experience, the RDNA suggests elements for national planning to overcome the impacts of this large-scale disaster. It underscores the importance of close collaboration and coordination among stakeholders across the country, as well as the support of international partners, to drive forward a resilient, inclusive, and sustainable recovery for people in Libya.
"Time is of the essence for affected people in eastern Libya. The proposed roadmap in this report offers a clear path forward that can support timely action, including through establishing a coordinated national platform for reconstruction. Let's channel our collective resources and expertise towards rebuilding, prioritizing the people - their livelihoods and well-being," said Georgette Gagnon, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the UN, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Libya.
"After the tragedy that struck Derna and the surrounding areas, the world witnessed Libyans from across the country coming together to provide emergency assistance to their fellow citizens in the face of unthinkable suffering. The international community also mobilized, inspired by this demonstration and compassion. The European Union and its Member States were on the front line from the very first hours. This RDNA provides a technical response tool that will permit an efficient and effective response to the affected area and population. We hope it can offer the basis for a much-needed national platform for reconstruction, echoing the Libyan people's example of unity," Nicola Orlando, Ambassador of the European Union to Libya.

About the Libya Rapid Damage & Needs Assessment
The Libya Rapid Damage and Needs Assessment report follows a globally established and recognized damage, loss, and needs assessment methodology developed by the World Bank with contributions from the UN, and the EU. This methodology has been applied globally in multiple post-disaster contexts to inform recovery and reconstruction planning. RDNA reports draw on the use of remote data collection such as satellite imagery, publicly available sources, information analytics, and partner organization’s data.
Contacts
For the World Bank:
Susan E. Pleming
Senior External Affairs Officer
spleming@worldbank.org(link sends e-mail)

For the United Nations Support Mission in Libya:
Mohammed ALASAADI
Public Information & Communications
alasaadi@un.org(link sends e-mail)

For the European Union:
DELEGATION-LIBYA-COMMUNICATION@eeas.europa.eu
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/258759-joint-world-bank-eu-un-report-assesses-damages-caused-catastrophic-flooding-libya




Date: 28 November 2023
Title: UNSMIL STATEMENT ON THE 16 DAYS OF ACTIVISM TO COMBAT VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN AND GIRLS
Content: 28 November 2023
TRIPOLI, 26 November 2023 - The United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL) stands united with Libyan defenders of women’s rights in supporting the 16 days of activism for the elimination of violence against women and girls.
UNSMIL calls on all Libyan authorities to foster an environment that respects and protects women and girls in Libya in line with their international obligations.
“As we embark on the United Nations Secretary General’s campaign to end violence against women by 2030, I call upon Libyan institutions and political actors to invest in preventing all forms of violence against women,” said Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya, Mr. Abdoulaye Bathily.
Nearly all female councillors interviewed as part of recent UN Women research had experienced at least one form of political violence during and after their election. These threats came from armed groups, male councillors and community members and included threats of abduction, enforced disappearance, cyber harassment, verbal and psychological violence.
“We still live in a male-dominated culture that leaves women vulnerable by denying them equality in dignity and rights,” said the UN Secretary General, António Guterres.
UNSMIL encourages all authorities to work toward an effective legal framework which addresses violence against women and girls, both in the private and public sphere, so that they are able to engage in electoral processes as voters and candidates and be meaningfully represented in all levels of decision-making.
“Every effort invested in the prevention of violence against women and girls is a significant step towards a safer, more just, and inclusive Libya,” said SRSG Bathily.
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/253996-unsmil-statement-16-days-activism-combat-violence-against-women-and-girls




Date: 22 September 2023
Title: Survivors of Derna floods face trauma, uncertainty
Content: 22 September 2023
Benghazi, 21 September 2023 – Providing psychosocial support to the thousands of people affected by Storm Daniel in eastern Libya 10 days ago is a priority, Georgette Gagnon, United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator said today.
On a two-day visit to Benghazi, Gagnon met with families who fled their flood-ravaged homes and sought safety in Benghazi, 250 kilometers away.  They spoke of their loss, and of their concern both for their children’s education, and of the unknown.
“It’s heart wrenching to hear what families have gone through and the severe distress they have endured,” Gagnon said. “ The mental toll is very high and support is urgently needed to help people heal.”
More than 43,000 people have been displaced by the floods in eastern Libya. Most of them are staying with relatives in nearby areas while some 2,780 people have traveled to Benghazi.
In a compound 30 minutes’ drive away from central Benghazi, Gagnon met a family of five who had arrived four days earlier. They told Gagnon that they found themselves in waist-deep water within seconds. All their belongings were swept away and they barely made it out of their home alive. Their house is gone as are many on their street.
In addition to medical care, disease control and prevention, and the testing and analysis of water sources, psychosocial support has been identified as one of the priority needs for affected people, according to an assessment by UN agencies who were recently in Albaydha, Derna and Sousse.
Aid is getting into Derna and the nearby areas. UNICEF shipped 65 metric tons of life saving medical supplies and water, sanitation and hygiene items, child protection supplies and delivered emergency medical kits to primary care services to support 15,000 people for three months and hygiene kits for almost 1,000 people and 500 clothing kits. Mobile psychosocial support teams are being set up with social welfare authorities and two NGO partners.
The UN Refugee Agency is distributing blankets, plastic tarpaulin and kitchen equipment to 6,200 displaced families in Derna and Benghazi.
The World Food Programme has distributed food rations to over 9,000 people. This includes dry rations to cover their food needs for 15 days.
The World Health Organization shipped 28 tons of medical supplies and donated ambulances and medical kits.  In addition, a WHO team met with the health authorities in Derna today and agreed to prioritize mental health support to help people cope with the distress they experienced during this catastrophe.
The International Organization for Migration has delivered non-food items to nearly 3,000 migrants and displaced persons.  The agency also delivered medicines and supplies for 5,000 people in Derna and 4,000 families in Benghazi.
United Nations agencies have appealed for $71.4 million to meet the immediate needs of 250,000 affected people in the next three months.
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/246907-survivors-derna-floods-face-trauma-uncertainty




Date: 14 September 2023
Title: Comment by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk on floods in Libya
Content: 14 September 2023
“I am profoundly distressed that thousands of lives have been so brutally swept away in eastern Libya, and so many more people have lost their loved ones, their homes, their communities, and their access to basic needs. Storm Daniel is yet another lethal reminder of the catastrophic impact that a changing climate can have on our world.
I call on all Libyan political actors to overcome political deadlocks and divisions and to act collectively in ensuring access to relief. This is a time for unity of purpose: all those affected must receive support, without regard for any affiliations. It is important that particular care is taken to ensure protection of groups in vulnerable situations – who are rendered even more at risk in the aftermath of such a disaster. Human rights need to be at the centre of the response to this heartbreaking situation. We need to invest in prevention and resilience.
I stand in solidarity with the people of Libya, with my deepest condolences to those who are mourning irreplaceable losses.”
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/245851-comment-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-volker-t%C3%BCrk-floods-libya




Date: 14 September 2023
Title: WFP Libya Launch of emergency operations
Content: 14 September 2023
World Food Programme rolls out food assistance to families affected by Storm Daniel
The World Food Programme (WFP) has begun providing desperately needed food assistance to more than 5,000 families displaced by massive flooding in Libya. Entire neighbourhoods in the city of Derna have disappeared, along with many of their residents, after flood waters from Storm Daniel caused two ageing dams to collapse.
On Tuesday, food distributions through WFP’s partner LibAid had already reached 2,000 people who had fled Derna and arrived in the city of Benghazi. On Wednesday, WFP was distributing food to about 700 flood-affected families in four locations of Derna city.
“These devastating floods have struck in a country where a profound political crisis has already left so many in a desperate situation. Alongside the tragic loss of life, thousands of families in Derna are now without food or shelter. WFP is on the ground, supporting local efforts and providing assistance to the most vulnerable people as they try to get back on their feet,” said WFP Executive Director, Cindy McCain.
The flood waters in the east of the country have damaged critical infrastructure, including roads, bridges, and water supply systems, exacerbating the humanitarian situation. It is estimated that tens of thousands of people have been displaced by the storm and subsequent flooding.
WFP is part of the Libya Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM), which brings together local partners and UN agencies, and ensures the quick access needed to provide assistance within 72 hours of a disaster. WFP is working closely with local authorities and  United Nations partners. WFP’s planned emergency operation will aim to provide monthly food assistance to 100,000 people in flood-affected areas for three months.
WFP is grateful to donors like Japan and Switzerland who provided the funds which allowed WFP to preposition the food stocks which were immediately mobilized for the initial crisis response.
WFP's work in Libya is not limited to the current crisis. The organization already supports over 52,000 people - internally displaced people, returnees, and migrants in urban areas - through food assistance and cash grants. Additionally, WFP collaborates with the government on resilience-building activities such as school feeding. By providing ongoing assistance and implementing long-term measures, WFP strives to address the multifaceted challenges faced by vulnerable communities in Libya.
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/245848-wfp-libya-launch-emergency-operations




Date: 14 September 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Libya
Content: 14 September 2023
The Secretary-General is profoundly saddened by the severe impact of Storm Daniel and subsequent flooding that hit the eastern parts of Libya. The storm has claimed thousands of lives, with thousands more people missing, homes destroyed and critical infrastructure damaged.
The Secretary-General expresses his solidarity with the people and authorities of Libya at this difficult time. He conveys his most sincere condolences to the families of the victims and wishes a speedy recovery to the injured.
The United Nations is working with local, national, and international partners to get urgently needed humanitarian assistance to those in the affected areas.
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/245849-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-libya




Date: 26 June 2023
Title: UN in Libya Releases 2022 Results Report and Launches New Website
Content: 26 June 2023
In 2022, the United Nations in Libya worked to advance sustainable peace and development for people across Libya by strengthening governance, restoring access to basic social services, and improving economic opportunities.
26 June 2023
“The UN in Libya’s 2022 Results Report, released today, highlights the collective efforts of 16 UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes and UNSMIL to support people in Libya to achieve sustainable peace and development,” said Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Georgette Gagnon. “This work aligns with the Sustainable Development Goals, which are the most effective way to address the root causes of conflict, build peace and foster national reconciliation.”
Further information about the UN’s work in Libya is showcased in a new UN website, also launched today.
In 2022, the UN implemented 108 projects in 28 locations, including 75 nationally implemented projects that supported improved core government functions, stimulated economic recovery, and built capacity for quality social-service delivery. These projects benefited thousands of people across the country.
The UN facilitated dialogues among political actors, civil society, and many Libyans across the country to support a path to sustainable peace and inclusive, credible national elections. UN technical support was provided on constitutional, legal, and electoral issues and to local and national electoral entities and key stakeholders. To advance inclusive, comprehensive, and rights-based national reconciliation, the UN supported intra-Libyan dialogues, provided technical support to Libya’s Presidential Council and civil society on a draft reconciliation law and empowered networks of local mediators.
To strengthen women’s participation in public and political life, the UN worked with women, government, and civil society to increase women’s representation in electoral, political, and decision-making processes and supported Libyan experts to finalize a draft law on elimination of violence against women. The UN provided technical support to government to enhance child protection and youth justice through improved legal and institutional frameworks and procedures. The UN Mine Action Service supported community security by providing explosive ordnance risk education for 216,000 people across Libya.
.
To stimulate economic recovery, the UN in Libya strengthened the supply and demand sides of the labour market by providing job trainings, livelihood support opportunities and innovative business start-up initiatives to more than 76,000 people, including youth and women across the country. At the same time, the UN worked to improve industrial effectiveness in select sectors, such as agriculture and fisheries.
The also UN worked with municipalities and the Ministries of Local Governance and Planning to develop strategic, medium-term municipal development plans and strengthen the work of municipal councils including on delivery of resilient and responsive social services.
With UN support, 60 percent of Libya’s population had their access to basic social services – health care, education, sanitation, and nutrition – restored or maintained in 2022. To build capacity for provision of quality social services, the UN worked with the government to strengthen national information management and evidence-based data collection systems, refurbish infrastructure and train service providers, including healthcare workers, water and sanitation technicians and others. The UN provided access to protection support for the most vulnerable people including migrants, refugees, asylum seekers and persons with special needs.
In 2022, the number of internally displaced people in Libya continued to decrease due to the country’s relatively stable security situation and the UN’s efforts with Libyan authorities to resolve peoples’ humanitarian and displacement-related needs and find durable solutions for them. At the end 2022, the UN estimated that 125,000 people remained internally displaced in Libya representing a 60 per cent decrease since the October 2020 ceasefire agreement.
Over the next three years, the UN’s development efforts in Libya will be guided by the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (2023-2025), which aligns the work of UN and government actors on four shared strategic priorities and two collective outcomes. The Cooperation Framework is a key tool to implement the Sustainable Development Goals and support inclusive, diversified economic growth that advances the human rights and wellbeing of all people in Libya.
“In 2023, the UN in Libya aims to move full speed ahead to implement the new Cooperation Framework with the government of Libya and development partners through improved strategic coordination and financing for the Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2030,” DSRSG Gagnon said. “By working together, we can maximize development results on the ground for people across Libya.”
Background
The United Nations in Libya comprises 17 resident and non-resident UN Agencies, Funds, Programmes and entities. Resident UN agencies and entities include: International Organization for Migration (IOM), Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), UN Development Programme (UNDP), UN Population Fund (UNFPA), UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), UN Women, World Food Programme (WFP), World Health Organization (WHO), and UN Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL). Non-resident agencies include the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), International Labour Organization (ILO), UN-HABITAT, UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and UN Office for Project Services (UNOPS).
The UN in Libya’s main funding partners in 2022 included the European Union, Italy, Germany, United States of America, Libya’s National Oil Company, Netherlands, Austria, France, Japan, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Canada, Norway, Finland, and Greece. The UN’s total programme expenditure in 2022 was USD 163.5 million.
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/238196-un-libya-releases-2022-results-report-and-launches-new-website




Date: 13 December 2022
Title: UN in Libya launches Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for 2023-2025
Content: 13 December 2022
TRIPOLI, 13 December 2022 – The United Nations in Libya Tuesday officially launched its Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for 2023-2025 in an event with the government and development partners.
Prime Minister Abdul Hamid Dbeibah and Special Representative of the Secretary General and Head of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya, Abdoulaye Bathily, and Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Libya, Georgette Gagnon attended the launch event.
“The Cooperation Framework is a vehicle to support inclusive, diversified economic growth that advances the human rights and wellbeing of all people in Libya,” said SRSG Bathily in his opening remarks.
The Framework supports the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, a set of global targets adopted by the United Nations in 2015 as an urgent call to countries to address inequality, foster economic growth, and protect the environment. Based on a common country analysis, the improved humanitarian situation in the country and extensive consultations with a wide range of stakeholders from across Libya, it outlines a transition from humanitarian to more development-and peace building focused work.
It establishes four strategic priorities to align the work of the UN and government actors in Libya. It focuses on:
“The Framework is a key tool to implement the Sustainable Development Goals, which remain the most effective way to address the root causes of conflict, prevent violence and build peace,” SRSG Bathily said.
“I call upon all stakeholders to make the year 2023, a year of stability and peace. Our partnership can achieve these development results only if there is peace, stability, and economic growth in this country.”
“I urge Libya’s leaders to listen to the call of their people to put an end to the interim stages, establish security, and prepare for elections. These are the conditions for a successful partnership between Libya and the UN,” he added.
During the event, D/SRSG Gagnon, other members of the UN Country Team, representatives from Libya’s ministries of planning, local governance and foreign affairs and the Prime Minister’s office, presented the Cooperation Framework to development partners and agreed on the importance of coordinated and coherent support by both national and international stakeholders.
“The UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for Libya ushers in a new phase of support aimed at advancing sustainable peace and development,” said D/SRSG RC/HC Gagnon. “Underpinned by the principle of partnerships and collaboration with the government and stakeholders across the country, the UN Framework aims to ensure that the most vulnerable people are at the center of Libya’s development and peacebuilding agenda.”
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/216287-un-libya-launches-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework-2023-2025




Date: 11 November 2022
Title: UNDP and Tatweer Research launch Business Start-Up Accelerator in Tripoli, Benghazi and Sebha
Content: 11 November 2022
10 November 2022, Tripoli –  The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Tatweer Research agreed a new business start-up accelerator initiative in Tripoli, Benghazi and Sebha to create new businesses and generate jobs for hundreds of youths as a critical component of building peace in Libya.
Half of Libya’s population are young people.  Expanding opportunities and support for yourng people to have meaningful jobs and be themselves engines of job creation represents a significant economic potential, which remains un-tapped.
As part of its Local Peacebuilding and Resilience Programme, UNDP partnered with Tatweer Research to launch a business start-Up accelerator to support innovative businesses ideas, to build new market linkages, identify market niches, build relationship with partners and investors, and increase access to capital across the country.  The initiative also contributes to UNDP’s efforts to upscale institutional capacities with the Ministry of Local Government and its resolution to create Business Incubators & Accelerators.
During the signing event, the CEO of Tatweer Reasearch Mr. Khaled Elmufti stated, “entrepreneurship in Libya is a critical component in creating stability and economic prosperity in the country by diversifying the economy and creating job opportunities. Building on the work with UNDP, we are very excited to work with promising Libyan entrepreneurs and start-ups and help them in their growth phase. This partnership with UNDP will be a critical component in this new chapter for start-ups and we are very honoured to work with the dedicated UNDP Libya team to continue building the Libyan entrepreneurs’ ecosystem.”
UNDP Resident Representative, Mr. Marc-André Franche underlined, “job creation for youth remains at the heart of UNDP’s local peacebuilding efforts.  We are encouraged by this new partnership with Tatweer Research enabling entrepreneurs to grow and create pathways for sustainable employment. We are particularly grateful to the European Union for the continuous support to foster job creation and entrepreneurship in Libya.”
The signing ceremony was also an opportunity for start-ups already benefiting from the Tatweer-UNDP partnership to showcase progress and results of their growing businesses in innovative sectors. These include:
Background
UNDP supports Libya's transition towards peace, economic recovery, and sustainable development to help the country get on a more robust development path by supporting local authorities to restore essential services delivery and livelihood opportunities and promote peaceful co-existence. Job creation for youth is at the heart of UNDP’s local Peacebuilding efforts. This initiative is part of the Strengthened Local Capacity for Resilience and Recovery Project funded by the North of Africa Window of the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability which contributes in addressing the root causes of irregular migration and displaced persons in Africa (EUTF – NOA).
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/216288-undp-and-tatweer-research-launch-business-start-accelerator-tripoli-benghazi-and-sebha




Date: 03 November 2022
Title: IOM Marks One Year of COVID-19 Vaccination Campaign in Libya
Content: 03 November 2022
Libya – 3 November 2022, With the support of the Austrian Development Agency and the European Union, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) marks one year since the start of its vital support to the Libyan National COVID-19 Vaccination Campaign led by the Libyan National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The campaign particularly targeted hard-to-reach communities and migrant detention centres in Libya.
Since October 2021, IOM provided various COVID-19 vaccination support to 23,732 migrants and host communities in Libya. In total, 23,004 migrants (97%) and 728 Libyans (3%), received either Sinopharm, AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccines. While 18,527 (78%) of the beneficiaries received one dose, 4,214 people (18%) received two doses, and 991 (4%) received three doses.
“The COVID-19 vaccination campaign that IOM has been facilitating with the NCDC in Libya is very important to better protect migrants and vulnerable host communities, who are vulnerable to COVID-19. This is due to their living conditions, greater proximity and restrained access to water, sanitation, and hygiene services”, Federico Soda, Chief of Mission of IOM Libya.
Lack of access to vaccination centres is a commonly identified obstacle to getting vaccinated for many migrants in the country. The vaccination campaign was organized in 22 community settings in West, East and South of Libya, as well as in 13 migrant detention centres. The migrants vaccinated were from 52 different countries of origin, with Niger (20%), Sudan (19%), Egypt (13%) and Eritrea (9%) being the most represented ones.
As a Nigerien migrant in Hai Al-Andalus explained to IOM: “I didn’t know before that the vaccine is free and I thought it was only for Libyans. Thank you for the clarification sister, of course, I’ll join the others now in the line to get my first dose ‘’.
The IOM assessment on COVID-19 and Vaccination in Libya (August 2022), highlighted that only 55% of migrants believe that COVID-19 vaccines are safe. Hesitancy to get vaccinated appears mainly related to a lack of information, lack of trust in information available or misinformation on specific vaccines, manufacturers, and their benefits, which lead to a lack of trust and concerns around vaccines’ efficiency and safety. The fear of adverse side effects, which many perceive as being severe to life-threatening and/or as having the potential to affect their ability to continue working, was also identified as a major driver of resistance to get vaccinated.
‘’ I can’t be more thankful to IOM. All the people who live in this shelter got vaccinated after conducting awareness sessions and the vaccination campaign in the area. All of them feel safer now. What happened today was really important for us because as you saw some of us can’t move easily out, especially the women.”, Eritrean migrant community leader on October 24, 2022.
Awareness raising sessions, conducted by the Libyan National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in collaboration with IOM, are organized as a part of the vaccination campaign and reached 39,582 people between October 2021 and October 2022.
Trust is a key element of any vaccination campaign, and of COVID-19 campaigns especially. ‘’I had some doubt about the vaccine because there were many rumors about it like dying after two years if you get the vaccine. I read the booklet that you gave us and I’m sure that any information from IOM should be trusted… [after long conversion] … I can now take my first shot without any concerns. Thank you, IOM medical team, for your great support’’, said a South Sudanese migrant in Tripoli.
According to the last IOM DTM report (Round 42, May-June 2022), the primary needs for migrants currently in Libya are centered around health services (70%). Indeed, four in five migrants (80%) interviewed by DTM in May and June 2022 stated having limited or no access to health services in Libya. Consistent with previous reports findings, cost and affordability of medical services remain the main hurdle to fulfill their needs.
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/216292-iom-marks-one-year-covid-19-vaccination-campaign-libya




Date: 12 August 2022
Title: International Youth Day: UNFPA aims to support a sustainable future for youth in Libya
Content: 12 August 2022
“Despite their sizeable proportion of the population and the great potential they represent, the empowerment and engagement of youth in Libya remains a missed opportunity. In fact, young people especially girls are confronting multifaceted challenges particularly stemming from a long period of conflict and instability. To address this challenging context, UNFPA is currently focusing on empowering Libyan youth with skills and sustainable livelihood opportunities, as well as, enabling them to contribute meaningfully to the stabilization and prosperity of Libya”, says Samir Anouti, UNFPA Representative in Libya in his statement on the International Youth Day.
The day is marked every year calling on the world to acknowledge the contribution of youth and utilize their potentials for achieving sustainable development. In Libya, young people especially girls have been disproportionately affected by the conflict, COVID-19 and associated vulnerabilities, which require support especially from donors and development partners.
“Youth in Libya are passing through the most challenging times. Lack of quality education, youth friendly health services and employment opportunities, compounded by limited meaningful venues for political and civic engagement is leading to increased vulnerabilities including marginalization, violence, and hardship. On the other hand, with youth-centered interventions, and through their active civic participation, untapped potentials could be cultivated for reaping developmental dividends in the years to come”, says Samir.
UNFPA Libya along its partners and with the support of European Union’s Africa Trust Fund (EUTF) is currently implementing the Employment Forward project in different cities of Libya.  The project is focused on empowering youth in Libya through capacity building on life skills and entrepreneurship.  It provides two months of intensive training on different topics such as sewing, handicrafts, phone maintenance, car showroom maintenance, robotics, effective communication, and others.
Talking about UNFPA’s youth programming in Libya, Samir says, “our interventions are yielding multiple results. We are not only building skills for sustainable economic gains but at the same time bringing youth issues to the forefront, encouraging, and celebrating youth potential to drive peace and development”.
URL: https://libya.un.org/en/216289-international-youth-day-unfpa-aims-support-sustainable-future-youth-libya




