Date: 25 March 2024
Title: Statement by UNICEF Malaysia on the Citizenship Amendment Bill updates
Content: 25 March 2024
Putrajaya
Read the original statement here
UNICEF commends the government’s welcome steps to not proceed with proposed amendments relating to Malaysia-born stateless children, and foundlings. This decision reflects a responsiveness to public concerns and underscores a commitment to upholding the rights and welfare of vulnerable populations, especially children. UNICEF acknowledges and supports such actions that prioritize the protection of children's rights, aligning with international conventions such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
It is equally important to recognize that the remaining regressive amendments will impact certain groups of children and pose a threat to their fundamental rights. The proposed amendments, if implemented, risk depriving these children of essential rights to healthcare, education, and family unity. To ensure the protection of children's rights and uphold the principles of equality and inclusivity, it is imperative that these remaining amendments undergo comprehensive review by a Parliamentary Special Select Committee (PSSC). This process will enable a thorough examination of the potential impact of the amendments and allow for the consideration of diverse perspectives and stakeholder input. By subjecting these amendments to full parliamentary scrutiny, we can uphold the integrity of the legislative process and make the best decision for all children in Malaysia.
UNICEF stands ready to support the government in this process, building on partnership and joint commitment for realizing children's rights, for an inclusive society where no child is left behind.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/264594-statement-unicef-malaysia-citizenship-amendment-bill-updates




Date: 28 November 2023
Title: KPWKM and UN Malaysia light up Menara Kuala Lumpur in orange - launching the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women (IDEVAW) and 16 Days of Activism
Content: 28 November 2023
Kuala Lumpur

Kuala Lumpur, 24 November – KL Tower was lit up in orange today to celebrate this year’s International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women (IDEVAW) and 16 Days of Activism, beginning Saturday the 25th of November. The evening launch event, organised by The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Malaysia, brought together key stakeholders in the arena towards ending Gender Based Violence (GBV) to collectively and symbolically launch the global call to end violence against women in Malaysia.
Present at the event were Yang Berhormat Dato’ Sri Nancy Shukri, Minister of Women, Family & Community Development (KPWKM), Karima El Korri, United Nations Resident Coordinator for Malaysia, Singapore & Brunei Darussalam, Dr. Asa Torkelsson, UNFPA Malaysia’s Country Representative, Datuk Dr Maziah Che Yusoff, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Women, Family and Community Development and Dr Wan Nur Ibtisam Binti Wan Ismail, Director General of the Department of Women’s Development, alongside other key representatives from government, academia, and civil society.
In her welcoming remarks, Dr Asa Torkelsson began by highlighting the dark reality still faced by millions of women and girls today: “Violence against women and girls sadly remains one of the most pervasive human rights violations that continues to happen. According to the United Nations, globally, 736 million women - that is almost 1 in 3 - have been subjected to physical or sexual intimate partner violence, non-partner sexual violence, or both at least once in their lifetime.” She acknowledged the strides that Malaysia had made so far to address social, legislative and enforcement gaps in the battle against gender-based violence, and highlighted Malaysia’s regional successes including being the first Asian country to introduce a specific law on domestic violence (the Domestic Violence Act 1944), and being the first to develop the trailblazing One Stop Crisis Center (OSSC) to support victims of gender-based violence.
In the Minister’s keynote speech, YB Dato’ Sri Nancy Shukri reminded the audience that the impacts of violence against women were not limited to women, but had widespread societal ramifications. Not only were survivors less likely to participate meaningfully in their communities or labour force, she revealed that gender based violence also had the ability to break down family structures and perpetuate generational cycles of violence. Ultimately, the stunted development of women and their families can impact the socio-economic development of communities and countries as a whole.
“UN Women estimated that the global cost of violence against women amounted to a whopping 1.5 trillion US dollars, stemming from loss of employment and productivity, and major resources required for social services, the justice system, health-care agencies and employers. As a nation or as a global community, we are all worse off when women are disempowered,” she said.
In line with Malaysia’s international commitments to tackling violence and discrimination against women, the Minister described several ongoing government initiatives to address domestic violence: “Operationally, a Committee on Addressing Domestic Violence was established as an institutionalised multi-stakeholder platform for implementing and monitoring concerted efforts to address domestic violence. We are also in the final stages of updating JKM’s Guideline on Handling Domestic Violence Cases, which serves as a reference and guidance to the relevant agencies to coordinate and handle the cases effectively.” The Minister highlighted Malaysia’s recent strides in enacting gender-focused policy, including the Sexual Harassment Act, the Anti-Stalking Section in the Penal Code, and amendments to the Employment Act. She also cited the government’s commitment to gender-responsive budgeting, and lauded the ongoing efforts of dedicated Gender Focal Teams within each Ministry. In line with legislative developments, she hoped to continue launching nationwide sexual harassment awareness roadshows in the new year, especially upon the establishment of the new Anti-Sexual Harassment Tribunal. Lastly, she stressed that addressing violence was a shared responsibility between the government, the private sector and all Malaysians: “We must all play a part in ensuring our workplaces are environments of safety, where there is zero tolerance for harassment or violence of any kind. The private sector has an immense role to play in ensuring that workplace culture proactively evolves to become inclusive, non-discriminatory and in consideration of unpaid care work duties of all employees - female as well as male.”
A panel session titled “Identifying and Strategising Key Social and Legislative Investments needed towards ending Violence against Women in Malaysia” was then held, moderated by Tehmina Kaoosji, Independent Broadcast Journalist. The session drew on the expertise and experience of panellistsACP Siti Kamsiah Hassan, Principal Assistant Director, D11 Unit, PDRM, YBrs Dr Wan Nur Ibtisam, Director General, Women’s Department, KPWKM, Tengku Aira Tengku Razif, Assistant Representative, UNFPA Malaysia, and Sumitra Visvanathan, Executive Director, WAO. The launch event concluded with a press conference featuring the Minister Yang Berhormat Dato’ Sri Nancy Shukri, Datuk Dr Maziah Che Yusoff and Dr Wan Nur Ibtisam from the Ministry of Women, Family and Community Development, alongside Dr Asa Torkelsson and Tengku Aira Tengku Razif representing UNFPA Malaysia.
###
View photos from the event here.
ABOUT UNFPA
The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) is an agency under the UN that aims to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled.
MEDIA ENQUIRIES
For further inquiries or any other related media matters, kindly please contact UNFPA Malaysia at malaysia.media@unfpa.org
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/253971-kpwkm-and-un-malaysia-light-menara-kuala-lumpur-orange-launching-international-day




Date: 24 October 2023
Title: United Nations Day Malaysia 2023
Content: 24 October 2023
Commemorating the 78th anniversary of the United Nations
The United Nations in Malaysia commemorated the 78th anniversary of the United Nations (UN) today in Taman Tugu, Kuala Lumpur.
The event, under the theme Act Now on UN Day and Every Day! amplifies the Act Now! campaign, aimed to inspire people to act for the Sustainable Development Goals and commit to a healthy planet, an inclusive economy, a just society and a world working together.
Leading the commemoration were Ms. Karima El Korri, the UN Resident Coordinator for Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei Darussalam, and YB Datuk Mohamad bin Alamin, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Malaysia. The event witnessed the participation of 160 UN staff and over 150 guests, including government officials, members of the Diplomatic Corps, representatives from civil society, youth organizations, religious leaders, academia, the private sector, and the media.
In her address, Ms. El Korri underscored the founding purposes and principles of the United Nations upheld in the organization’s Charter, and said: “As we look back on nearly eight decades of commitment to peace, security, human rights, and development, we acknowledge our successes and setbacks. And with unwavering resolve and resilience, the UN stands as a beacon of international unity and a source of hope for people around the world.”
The United Nations in Malaysia is comprised of 22 UN agencies of the UN Country Team (UNCT), all working in support of Malaysia's efforts to achieve inclusive and sustainable development. UN Resident Coordinator Karima El Korri said: “Malaysia’s unwavering commitment to globally agreed frameworks is unquestionable. We applaud the nation’s fresh perspective on the economy and society outlined in Malaysia Madani, Ekonomi Madani, and the many macro and local-level initiatives drive the country’s transformation. The establishment of the Malaysia-UN SDG Trust Fund is a testimony to the government’s commitment to engage all stakeholders. It is also proof of the strong trust in the United Nations as a results-driven partner.”
YB Datuk Mohamad bin Alamin extended his congratulations to the UN on its 78th anniversary and reiterated Malaysia's firm commitment to continued engagement with the UN. He stated, "Malaysia reaffirms its dedication to continuing cooperation with the UN and its member states, grounded in the principles of mutual respect and international law, as enshrined in the UN Charter.”
We also thank the UN in Malaysia for its continued work supporting the country in reaching its goals for a more sustainable and equitable future. The UN has accompanied us in our journey since independence, and we hope this partnership will continue to prosper.”
YB Datuk Mohamad bin Alamin added that Malaysia has always been an active participant in the UN, engaging with the global community through various means, from co-sponsoring resolutions to our continued support of UN peacekeeping missions, with over 800 personnel participating across various missions. Malaysia is also host to UN Global and Regional centres such as the WHO and UNDP Global Service Centres and UN Humanitarian Response Depot (UNHRD).
The UN Day event at Taman Tugu also featured the "Act Now!" storytelling session, where UN agencies in Malaysia enlightened the audience about their work in areas such as healthy aging, the care economy, sustainable tourism, immunization for hard-to-reach populations, refugee support, green urban spaces, promoting safe migration, inspiring small and medium-sized enterprises, and empowering children through disaster education. Participants also explored the Taman Tugu trail walks.
UN Day, celebrated every year on 24 October, commemorates the entry into force in 1945 of the UN Charter. It amplifies our common agenda and reaffirms the purposes and principles of the UN Charter that have guided us for the past 78 years.
-ends-

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/250369-united-nations-day-malaysia-2023




Date: 19 September 2023
Title: Responding to cascading global crises, SDG Summit launches new phase of accelerated action on the Sustainable Development Goals
Content: 19 September 2023
World leaders agree to take immediate action to unlock more and better financing for developing countries
New York, 18 September – Gathering at the SDG Summit on 18 to 19 September, world leaders agreed today to urgently step up their efforts to deliver  the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), our global roadmap out of crises, by 2030.
World leaders made an historic global promise to secure the rights and well-being of everyone on a healthy, thriving planet when they agreed to the 2030 Agenda and the 17 SDGs in 2015. However, at midpoint of SDG implementation, the SDGs are in peril. Tens of millions have fallen into poverty since 2020. Over 110 million people are forcibly displaced. Inequalities have worsened, strikingly so for women and girls. Many governments are forced to choose between debt payments and investing in healthcare and education. The climate emergency is wreaking havoc on lives and livelihoods. Developing countries and the world’s most vulnerable people continue to bear the brunt of these crises.
“The SDGs aren’t just a list of goals. They carry the hopes, dreams, rights and expectations of people everywhere,” said UN Secretary-General António Guterres. “Yet today, only 15 per cent of the targets are on track. Many are going in reverse. Instead of leaving no one behind, we risk leaving the SDGs behind.”
The Political Declaration
Leaders adopted a decisive, action-oriented political declaration at the Summit, highlighting their collective commitment to build a sustainable, inclusive and prosperous world by 2030.
With a strong focus on the means of implementation, and in particular, on financing for development, the declaration acknowledges that without a quantum leap in investments to enable just and equitable energy, food, digital transitions, and a transformation in education and robust social protection in developing countries, the goals simply will not be met.
Additionally, the Declaration urges immediate action to deliver an SDG Stimulus proposed by the UN Secretary-General, which calls for a massive increase in financing for the achievement of the SDGs to the tune of $500 billion each year. It also conveys strong support from all countries for a much-needed reform of the international financial architecture to better reflect today’s global economy.
“I am deeply encouraged by the detailed and wide-ranging draft political declaration under consideration here today — especially its commitment to improving developing countries’ access to the fuel required for SDG progress: finance. This can be a game-changer in accelerating SDG progress,” stated the Secretary-General.
Global and National Commitments
Over 100 Countries will present national commitments to SDG Transformation that include priority transitions and areas for investment, setting national benchmarks for reducing poverty and inequalities by 2027 and strengthening institutional frameworks to support SDG progress. In addition to these national commitments, developed countries and other countries who have the capacity, are expected to make individual global commitments drawing on the Secretary-General’s proposal for an SDG Stimulus and broader means of implementation, such as fulfilling ODA commitments, suspending debt payments and agreeing on innovative finance mechanisms.
SDG Action Weekend
The SDGs cannot be delivered by governments alone. The SDG Action Weekend on 16 to 17 September gave an opportunity for over 3000 people from all sectors of society to outline their commitments to accelerate progress on the SDGs. The SDG Mobilization Day on Saturday 16 September saw business, civil society, science, local authorities and young people making meaningful contributions to SDG implementation.
The SDG Acceleration Day on 17 September highlighted UN High-Impact Initiatives that show that transformation is possible and will help to drive momentum for action on the ground in the coming years. The initiatives focus on six major transitions that will drive progress across the SDGs: i) Social Protection; ii) Energy; iii.) Education; iv) Food Systems; v) Digital Transformation; vi) Biodiversity and Nature, underpinned by greater financing and other supports, as well as action to advance gender equality.

About the Summit
The opening of the Summit featured statements by the President of the General Assembly Dennis Francis, UN Secretary-General António Guterres and President of the Economic and Social Council Paula Narvaéz.
The 2-day Summit will feature a short plenary segment to hear the actions and commitments delivered on behalf of groups of States. Six Leaders' Dialogues will allow Heads of State and Government to report on progress and set out concrete national commitments to SDG transformation.
SDG Media Zone, 18-22 September, 10:30 am – 4:30 pm
The SDG Media Zone is a key feature of the UN General Assembly’s High-Level Week, bringing together world leaders, influencers, activists, experts, content creators and media partners to highlight actions and solutions in support of the SDGs. Organized by the UN Department of Global Communications, in collaboration with the PVBLIC Foundation, the Zone takes the conversation on advancing the 2030 Agenda into the public discourse through impactful in-depth interviews and conversations on global issues that matter to people everywhere. All sessions will livestream on UN WebTV.
SDG Pavilion, 15-22 September
The SDG Pavilion is a beacon for the Sustainable Development Goals. It was created to mark the halfway point of the Goals. To use a sporting analogy, we are down at halftime.
However, the good news is that any given match is won in the second half. Organized by the UN Office for Partnerships, in collaboration with Project Everyone, the SDG Pavilion will host a series of Halftime Talks and a high level gathering of women leaders to mobilize the world to keep the promise of the SDGs. Sessions will be livestreamed on UN WebTV.

Follow the SDG Summit
Please follow us on the SDG Summit, using the main hashtags: #GlobalGoals and #SDGs.
On Facebook: United Nations, Global GoalsUN, DESA, Sustainable Development
On Twitter: @UN, @GlobalGoalsUN, @UNDESA, @SustDev, @UN_Partnerships
For more additional information, please visit key links below:
The SDG Summit 2023 website and SDG Summit Programme
The SDG Summit Media Corner
The SDG Action Weekend
High-Level Week of the UN General Assembly Snapshot
The Sustainable Development Goals Website
Follow key events live on UN WebTV.
Media contacts (interviews available upon request):
Francyne Harrigan, UN Department of Global Communications, harriganf@un.org
Sharon Birch, UN Department of Global Communications, birchs@un.org

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/246383-responding-cascading-global-crises-sdg-summit-launches-new-phase-accelerated-action




Date: 04 July 2023
Title: New ILO study highlights steps to strengthen decent work in Malaysia’s rubber glove supply chain
Content: 04 July 2023
Study sets out series of recommendations for Malaysian government, employers, workers and key stakeholders to support working conditions in key export industry.
Read of the original press release here
Actions to enhance labour rights, social dialogue and fair recruitment practices are needed to strengthen decent work in the Malaysian rubber glove sector according to a new International Labour Organization (ILO) report.

The findings aim to promote action and provide guidance to the Government of Malaysia, employers’ and workers’ organizations, buyers of rubber gloves, recruitment agencies and other key industry stakeholders.

Key recommendations made by the report include the need to strengthen rights at work by continuing to align Malaysian labour laws with international standards. Particular attention should be paid to working hours – especially overtime hours permitted – as well as ensuring safe and healthy working and living environments. Enforcement capacity at the Department of Labour should also be reinforced so that it can regularly inspect workplaces to monitor compliance with labour laws.

The report highlights how strengthened social dialogue would support employers to identify and resolve workplace issues and enable workers to collectively negotiate for better and safer working conditions. While the weak presence of unions in the sector is noted, glove manufacturing workers who participated in this study expressed a desire to join a union if one were active.

The need for greater promotion of fair recruitment practices in the sector, including through relevant labour law reform that would, inter alia, prohibit recruiters and employers from charging recruitment fees and related costs to workers is also stressed.

Other recommendations include the need to strengthen the capacity of employers to conduct due diligence in their supply chains, including on recruitment agencies and labour sub-contractors as well as improving grievance mechanisms.

Speaking about the findings, Ms. Panudda Boonpala, ILO’s Deputy Regional Director for Asia and the Pacific said: “The research provides an analysis of the decent work challenges and opportunities in the rubber glove supply chain in Malaysia. We trust that the findings and recommendations will be of use for the Government, employers’ and workers’ organizations and the other supply chain stakeholders in generating and imple¬menting new policies, plans, tools and training to address the challenges and harness the opportunities for promoting decent work in the rubber glove supply chain.”

Decent work challenges and opportunities in Malaysia’s rubber glove supply chain was developed within the framework of the Sustainable Supply Chain to Build Forward Better (SSCBFB) project,  a joint initiative of the ILO and the European (EU) to advance decent work in key global supply chains of key importance.

Malaysia is the world’s largest exporter of rubber gloves, contributing more than 60 per cent of global glove exports. The sector employs around 70,000 workers, of which about 60 per cent are migrant workers.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/238866-new-ilo-study-highlights-steps-strengthen-decent-work-malaysia%E2%80%99s-rubber-glove-supply-chain




Date: 20 March 2023
Title: IPCC Synthesis Report: Urgent climate action can secure a liveable future for all
Content: 20 March 2023
INTERLAKEN, Switzerland, March 20, 2023

Visit the AR6 Synthesis Report Climate Change 2023 microsite here for all materials
There are multiple, feasible and effective options to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to human-caused climate change, and they are available now, said scientists in the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report released today.
“Mainstreaming effective and equitable climate action will not only reduce losses and damages for nature and people, it will also provide wider benefits,” said IPCC Chair Hoesung Lee. “This Synthesis Report underscores the urgency of taking more ambitious action and shows that, if we act now, we can still secure a liveable sustainable future for all.”
In 2018, IPCC highlighted the unprecedented scale of the challenge required to keep warming to 1.5°C. Five years later, that challenge has become even greater due to a continued increase in greenhouse gas emissions. The pace and scale of what has been done so far, and current plans, are insufficient to tackle climate change.
More than a century of burning fossil fuels as well as unequal and unsustainable energy and land use has led to global warming of 1.1°C above pre-industrial levels. This has resulted in more frequent and more intense extreme weather events that have caused increasingly dangerous impacts on nature and people in every region of the world.
Every increment of warming results in rapidly escalating hazards. More intense heatwaves, heavier rainfall and other weather extremes further increase risks for human health and ecosystems. In every region, people are dying from extreme heat. Climate-driven food and water insecurity is expected to increase with increased warming. When the risks combine with other adverse events, such as pandemics or conflicts, they become even more difficult to manage.
Losses and damages in sharp focus
The report, approved during a week-long session in Interlaken, brings in to sharp focus the losses and damages we are already experiencing and will continue into the future, hitting the most vulnerable people and ecosystems especially hard. Taking the right action now could result in the transformational change essential for a sustainable, equitable world.
“Climate justice is crucial because those who have contributed least to climate change are being disproportionately affected,” said Aditi Mukherji, one of the 93 authors of this Synthesis Report, the closing chapter of the Panel’s sixth assessment.
“Almost half of the world’s population lives in regions that are highly vulnerable to climate change. In the last decade, deaths from floods, droughts and storms were 15 times higher in highly vulnerable regions,“ she added.
In this decade, accelerated action to adapt to climate change is essential to close the gap between existing adaptation and what is needed. Meanwhile, keeping warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels requires deep, rapid and sustained greenhouse gas emissions reductions in all sectors. Emissions should be decreasing by now and will need to be cut by almost half by 2030, if warming is to be limited to 1.5°C.
Clear way ahead
The solution lies in climate resilient development. This involves integrating measures to adapt to climate change with actions to reduce or avoid greenhouse gas emissions in ways that provide wider benefits.
For example: access to clean energy and technologies improves health, especially for women and children; low-carbon electrification, walking, cycling and public transport enhance air quality, improve health, employment opportunities and deliver equity. The economic benefits for people’s health from air quality improvements alone would be roughly the same, or possibly even larger than the costs of reducing or avoiding emissions.
Climate resilient development becomes progressively more challenging with every increment of warming. This is why the choices made in the next few years will play a critical role in deciding our future and that of generations to come.
To be effective, these choices need to be rooted in our diverse values, worldviews and knowledges, including scientific knowledge, Indigenous Knowledge and local knowledge. This approach will facilitate climate resilient development and allow locally appropriate, socially acceptable solutions.
“The greatest gains in wellbeing could come from prioritizing climate risk reduction for low-income and marginalised communities, including people living in informal settlements,” said Christopher Trisos, one of the report’s authors. “Accelerated climate action will only come about if there is a many-fold increase in finance. Insufficient and misaligned finance is holding back progress.”
Enabling sustainable development
There is sufficient global capital to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions if existing barriers are reduced. Increasing finance to climate investments is important to achieve global climate goals.Governments, through public funding and clear signals to investors, are key in reducing these barriers. Investors, central banks and financial regulators can also play their part.
There are tried and tested policy measures that can work to achieve deep emissions reductions and climate resilience if they are scaled up and applied more widely. Political commitment, coordinated policies, international cooperation, ecosystem stewardship and inclusive governance are all important for effective and equitable climate action.
If technology, know-how and suitable policy measures are shared, and adequate finance is made available now, every community can reduce or avoid carbon-intensive consumption. At the same time, with significant investment in adaptation, we can avert rising risks, especially for vulnerable groups and regions.
Climate, ecosystems and society are interconnected. Effective and equitable conservation of approximately 30-50% of the Earth’s land, freshwater and ocean will help ensure a healthy planet. Urban areas offer a global scale opportunity for ambitious climate action that contributes to sustainable development.
Changes in the food sector, electricity, transport, industry, buildings and land-use can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, they can make it easier for people to lead low-carbon lifestyles, which will also improve health and wellbeing. A better understanding of the consequences of overconsumption can help people make more informed choices.
“Transformational changes are more likely to succeed where there is trust, where everyone works together to prioritise risk reduction, and where benefits and burdens are shared equitably,” Lee said. “We live in a diverse world in which everyone has different responsibilities and different opportunities to bring about change. Some can do a lot while others will need support to help them manage the change.”
###
Temperature-Scale Equivalents
1.1C = 2.0F
1.5C = 2.7F
For more information, please contact:
IPCC Press Office: ipcc-media@wmo.int
Lance Ignon, SYR Communications Specialist: ignon@ipcc-syr.org
AR6 Synthesis Report in Numbers
Review comments: 6841
Governments: 47 (21 Developed, 2 Economies in transition, 22 Developing, 2 SIDS)
Government Comments: 6636 (1814 Figures, 4822 Text)
Observers: 5
Observer Comments: 205
Core Writing Team members: 49
Review Editors: 9
Extended Writing Team Authors: 7
Contributing Authors: 28
Women: 41
Men: 52
Developing Country Authors: 37
Developed Country Authors: 56
About the IPCC
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is the United Nations body for assessing the science related to climate change. It was established by the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) in 1988 to provide political leaders with periodic scientific assessments about climate change. The IPCC has 195 member states that are members of the UN or WMO.
Thousands of people from all over the world contribute to the work of the IPCC. For the assessment reports, experts volunteer their time as IPCC authors to assess the thousands of scientific papers published each year to provide a comprehensive summary of what is known about the drivers of climate change, its impacts and future risks, and how adaptation and mitigation can reduce those risks. An open and transparent review by experts and member governments is an essential part of the IPCC process to ensure an objective and complete assessment and to reflect a diverse range of views and expertise.
The IPCC has three working groups: Working Group I, which addresses with the physical science of climate change; Working Group II, which focuses on the impact, adaptation and vulnerability associated with climate change; and Working Group III, which deals with the mitigation of climate change. It also has a Task Force on Greenhouse Gas Inventories that develops methodologies for measuring emissions and removals.
IPCC assessments provide governments, at all levels, with scientific information they can use to develop climate policies. IPCC assessments are a key input into the international negotiations to tackle climate change. IPCC reports are drafted and reviewed in several stages to guarantee accuracy, objectivity and transparency.
About the Sixth Assessment Cycle
The IPCC publishes comprehensive scientific assessments every six to seven years. The previous one, the Fifth Assessment Report, was completed in 2014 and provided the main scientific input to The Paris Agreement.
At its 41st Session in February 2015, the IPCC decided to produce a Sixth Assessment Report (AR6). At its 42nd Session in October 2015, it elected a new Bureau, which is composed of the IPCC Chair, the IPCC Vice-Chairs, the Co-Chairs and Vice-Chairs of the Working Groups, and the Co-Chairs of the Task Force. At its 43rd Session in April 2016, the IPCC decided to produce three Special Reports, a Methodology Report and AR6.
The Working Group I contribution to AR6, Climate Change 2021: the Physical Science Basis, was released on 9 August 2021. The Working Group II contribution, Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability, was released on 28 February 2022. The Working Group III contribution, Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change, was released on 4 April 2022.
The IPCC also published the following special reports on more specific issues during the Sixth Assessment Cycle:
Global Warming of 1.5°C (2.7°F) in October 2018;
Climate Change and Land in August 2019; and
Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate in September 2019
In May 2019, the IPCC released the 2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines on National Greenhouse Gas Inventories
For more information, please visit www.ipcc.ch. Most videos published by the IPCC can be found on its YouTube channel
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/224010-ipcc-synthesis-report-urgent-climate-action-can-secure-liveable-future-all




Date: 14 March 2023
Title: UNEP’s 2023 Champions of the Earth Award
Content: 14 March 2023
Nominations open for UNEP’s 2023 Champions of the Earth Award with a focus on plastic pollution solutions.
Nairobi, 14 March 2023 – The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) today launched a call for nominations for its annual Champions of the Earth award – the UN’s highest environmental honour – to recognize outstanding leaders from government, civil society, and the private sector for their transformative impact on the environment.
This year, UNEP seeks nomination of individuals, organisations and governments developing and implementing innovative and sustainable solutions and policies to eliminate plastic pollution.
Following a historic UN Environment Assembly resolution in 2022 to develop an international legally binding instrument on plastic pollution, including in the marine environment with the ambition to complete the negotiations by end of 2024, the year 2023 is critical to ensuring the world comes together to end the scourge of plastic pollution. This year’s World Environment Day, hosted by Cote d'Ivoire, will also focus on efforts to #BeatPlasticPollution.
The challenge of the triple planetary crisis of climate change, nature loss and pollution and waste is not insurmountable. People around the world are stepping forward every day to innovate and implement ways to support nature’s extraordinary capacity for renewal. The Champions of the Earth help lead that push. They remind us that environmental sustainability is key to achieving sustainable development.
Since the award’s inception in 2005, a total of 111 laureates have been honoured as Champions of the Earth: 26 world leaders, 69 individuals and 16 organizations.
In 2022, the Champions of the Earth Award received a record number of nominations from all over the world. The growing interest over the years reflects the increasing number of people standing up for the environment and greater acknowledgement of the value of this work.

UNEP’s 2022 Champions of the Earth laureates are:
Individuals, government entities, groups and organisations may be nominated under the categories of Policy Leadership, Inspiration and Action, Entrepreneurial Vision, and Science and Innovation. Nominations are open from 14 March to 14 April 2023 to everyone; the Champions of the Earth will be announced in late 2023.
Nominate a Champion of the Earth

NOTES TO EDITORS
About the UNEP Champions of the Earth
UNEP’s Champions of the Earth honours individuals, groups, and organizations whose actions have a transformative impact on the environment. The annual Champions of the Earth award is the UN’s highest environmental honour. It recognizes outstanding leaders from government, civil society, and the private sector.
About the UN Environment Programme
UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
For more information, please contact:
News and Media Unit, UN Environment Programme

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/225289-unep%E2%80%99s-2023-champions-earth-award




Date: 27 October 2022
Title: Inadequate progress on climate action makes rapid transformation of societies only option - UNEP
Content: 27 October 2022
Nairobi, 27 October 2022 – As intensifying climate impacts across the globe hammer home the message that greenhouse gas emissions must fall rapidly, a new UN Environment Programme (UNEP) report finds that the international community is still falling far short of the Paris goals, with no credible pathway to 1.5°C in place.
However, the Emissions Gap Report 2022: The Closing Window – Climate crisis calls for rapid transformation of societies finds that urgent sector and system-wide transformations – in the electricity supply, industry, transport and buildings sectors, and the food and financial systems – would help to avoid climate disaster.
“This report tells us in cold scientific terms what nature has been telling us, all year, through deadly floods, storms and raging fires: we have to stop filling our atmosphere with greenhouse gases, and stop doing it fast,” said Inger Andersen, Executive Director of UNEP. “We had our chance to make incremental changes, but that time is over. Only a root-and-branch transformation of our economies and societies can save us from accelerating climate disaster.”
A wasted year
The report finds that, despite a decision by all countries at the 2021 climate summit in Glasgow, UK (COP26) to strengthen Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and some updates from nations, progress has been woefully inadequate. NDCs submitted this year take only 0.5 gigatonnes of CO2 equivalent, less than one per cent, off projected global emissions in 2030.
This lack of progress leaves the world hurtling towards a temperature rise far above the Paris Agreement goal of well below 2°C, preferably 1.5°C. Unconditional NDCs are estimated to give a 66 per cent chance of limiting global warming to about 2.6°C over the century. For conditional NDCs, those that are dependent on external support, this figure is reduced to 2.4°C. Current policies alone would lead to a 2.8°C hike, highlighting the temperature implications of the gap between promises and action.
In the best-case scenario, full implementation of unconditional NDCs and additional net-zero emissions commitments point to only a 1.8°C increase, so there is hope. However, this scenario is not currently credible based on the discrepancy between current emissions, short-term NDC targets and long-term net-zero targets.
Unprecedented cuts needed
To meet the Paris Agreement goals, the world needs to reduce greenhouse gases by unprecedented levels over the next eight years.
Unconditional and conditional NDCs are estimated to reduce global emissions in 2030 by 5 and 10 per cent respectively, compared with emissions based on policies currently in place. To get on a least-cost pathway to holding global warming to 1.5°C, emissions must fall by 45 per cent over those envisaged under current policies by 2030. For the 2°C target, a 30 per cent cut is needed.
Such massive cuts mean that we need a large-scale, rapid and systemic transformation. The report explores how to deliver part of this transformation in key sectors and systems.
“It is a tall, and some would say impossible, order to reform the global economy and almost halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but we must try,” said Andersen. “Every fraction of a degree matters: to vulnerable communities, to species and ecosystems, and to every one of us.”
“Even if we don’t meet our 2030 goals, we must strive to get as close as possible to 1.5°C. This means setting up the foundations of a net-zero future: one that will allow us to bring down temperature overshoots and deliver many other social and environmental benefits, like clean air, green jobs and universal energy access.”
Electricity, industry, transport and buildings
The report finds that the transformation towards net-zero greenhouse gas emissions in electricity supply, industry, transportation and buildings is underway, but needs to move much faster. Electricity supply is most advanced, as the costs of renewable electricity have reduced dramatically. However, the pace of change must increase alongside measures to ensure a just transition and universal energy access.
For buildings, the best available technologies need to be rapidly applied. For industry and transport, zero emission technology needs to be further developed and deployed. To advance the transformation, all sectors need to avoid lock in of new fossil fuel-intensive infrastructure, advance zero-carbon technology and apply it, and pursue behavioural changes.
Food systems can reform to deliver rapid and lasting cuts
Focus areas for food systems, which account for about a third of greenhouse gas emissions, include protection of natural ecosystems, demand-side dietary changes, improvements in food production at the farm level and decarbonization of food supply chains. Action in these four areas can reduce projected 2050 food system emissions to around a third of current levels, as opposed to emissions almost doubling if current practices are continued.
Governments can facilitate transformation by reforming subsidies and tax schemes. The private sector can reduce food loss and waste, use renewable energy and develop novel foods that cut down carbon emissions. Individual citizens can change their lifestyles to consume food for environmental sustainability and carbon reduction, which will also bring many health benefits.
The financial system must enable the transformation
A global transformation to a low-emissions economy is expected to require investments of at least USD 4-6 trillion a year. This is a relatively small (1.5-2 per cent) share of total financial assets managed, but significant (20-28 per cent) in terms of additional annual resources to be allocated.
Most financial actors, despite stated intentions, have shown limited action on climate mitigation because of short-term interests, conflicting objectives and not recognizing climate risks adequately.
Governments and key financial actors will need to steer credibly in one direction: a transformation of the financial system and its structures and processes, engaging governments, central banks, commercial banks, institutional investors and other financial actors.
The report recommends six approaches to financial sector reform, which must be carried out simultaneously:

NOTES TO EDITORS
About the UN Environment Programme (UNEP)
UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
For more information, please contact:
Keisha Rukikaire, Head of News & Media, UN Environment Programme
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/204976-inadequate-progress-climate-action-makes-rapid-transformation-societies-only-option-unep




Date: 29 August 2022
Title: MOH and UNICEF calling for stakeholders action on Children’s Mental Health
Content: 29 August 2022
Ministry of Health with UNICEF today launched the Malaysia Country Report and Infographic 2022: Strengthening Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) Systems and Services for Children and Adolescents in the East Asia and Pacific Region. The MHPSSS study was a collaborative effort between the Ministry of Health Malaysia and UNICEF that began in May 2021. Dato’ Dr. Haji Noor Azmi bin Ghazali, Deputy Minister of Health graced the occasion.
Mental health of children and adolescents is amongst the most neglected health issues globally, including East Asia and the Pacific. In Malaysia, young children and teenagers experience a high burden of poor mental health. According to the 2019 National Health Mobility Survey (NHMS),  about 424,000 children in Malaysia have mental problems, but many do not come forward to seek for assistance.  Of particular worry is that 1 in 8 adolescents aged 10–19, and 1 in 20 children aged 5–9 years are estimated to have a mental disorder including developmental disorder. Notably, suicide was second leading cause of death among adolescents aged 15–19. Among risk factors for poor mental health, exposure to violence, peer victimization and bullying, loneliness and social isolation were particularly prevalent.
The MHPSS research is the first in the Pacific region that focused on children and adolescent up to 18 years old in Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, and Papua New Guinea. The research was conceptualized by Burnet Institute Australia and sponsored by UNICEF.
Dr Norizan Binti Rosli from Institute for Clinical Research (ICR), National Institute for Health (NIH) Ministry of Health Malaysia lead the Malaysian team with researchers from the Institute for Health Behavioural Research & Institute for Health Management from NIH, psychiatrists from 4 major public hospitals and in collaboration with Professor Marc Archer from Centre for Mental Health and Well-being, HELP University.
The MHPSS report summarizes the consultations and interviews with 124 stakeholders’ from health, justice, social welfare, education sectors including government and non-governmental organisations, UN agencies and youth representatives.
The report highlights key gaps in the current response and challenges on the implementation of MHPSS among children and adolescent, including difficult or limited access to services for mental health problems,  lack of empowerment in existing law and policies, deficiencies in communication and coordination between sectors, insufficient funding, lack of trained personal in MHPSS for children and adolescent, limited involvement of end user (youth/parent/ care takers/ other sector) in the planning of mental health programs and  monitoring. To address these gaps,  a priority package of actions are proposed to offer better accessibility and responsiveness towards mental health conditions. In addition, sectoral lead and specific recommendations are identified to improve the implementation of MHPSS for children and adolescents.
“The Ministry of Health is committed to translating the MHPSS research findings into policy and practice. As we are developing the National Centre of Excellence for Mental Health (NCEMH) MOH urges all stakeholders and experts, from both government and non-governmental agencies, to facilitate greater collaboration and coordination in the implementation of MHPSS for children and adolescents in Malaysia. Poor mental health can have a profound impact on the health, learning and participation of children and adolescents, thus limiting their opportunities to reach their full potential. There is a substantial unmet need for MHPSS for children and adolescents” said Dato’ Dr Haji Noor Azmi bin Ghazali, Deputy Minister of Health I.
The MHPSS conceptual framework in Malaysia provides country-specific recommendations based on evidence for policy and decision-making. Complementing the country report is an infographic designed to disseminate key research findings to the public.
“UNICEF commends the Ministry of Health Malaysia for their swift action and focus in addressing the mental health needs of children and adolescents. Based on the evidence generated by the Report, and the increasing prevalence of mental health conditions among children and adolescents, now more than ever is the time   to consider the formation of a National Steering Committee for Children and Adolescents Mental Health, that holds the authority and resources to drive action.  Your commitment will change the trajectory of mental health care in Malaysia, that will in turn contribute to the health and prosperity of the nation”, said Christopher Davids, Deputy Representative for UNICEF in Malaysia.
The Ministry of Health is grateful for UNICEF’s support in this research and welcomes their continued support in implementing the research findings and future collaborative research.
29 August 2022

Note to editors:
The report is available online: https://unicef.org/malaysia/reports/strengthening-mental-health-psychosocial-support-systems-services
The research was conceptualized by Burnet Institute Australia, supported by UNICEF, and overseen by both organizations. Malaysia is among four countries in which the research was conducted—Thailand, Philippines, and Papua New Guinea being the others. The research in Malaysia was executed by researchers and psychiatrists from the Ministry of Health Malaysia. The researchers hailed from three research institutes from the National Institutes of Health (NIH)— Institute for Clinical Research (ICR), Institute for Health Behavioural Research (IHBR), and Institute for Health Management (IHM).

About NIH, MOH Malaysia
NIH is the research body under the Ministry of Health Malaysia. We focus on conducting health research to support the ministry and the stakeholders in ensuring the wellbeing of the people. The establishment of the NIH aims to create seamless continuum research from identifying research priorities, conducting research, and utilizing research findings for the health services and programs. The six research institutes under NIH are Institute for Clinical Research (ICR), Institute for Health Behavioural Research (IHBR), Institute for Health Management (IHM), Institute for Medical Research (IMR), Institute for Public Health (IKU), and Institute for Health System Research (IHSR)
For more information about NIH, visit: www.nih.gov.my

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work, visit: www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube

For more information, please contact:
Dr Norizan Binti Rosli  & Dr Aimi Nadiah, ICR, NIH, MOH Malaysia, +603 3362 8864, norizan@crc.gov.my / aimi.nadiah@moh.gov.my
Rachel Choong, UNICEF Malaysia, +6012 293 2690, rchoong@unicef.org

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/197941-moh-and-unicef-calling-stakeholders-action-children%E2%80%99s-mental-health




Date: 09 August 2022
Title: The annual health-care cost of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer in Malaysia exceeds RM 9.65 billion
Content: 09 August 2022
A new report from the Ministry of Health (MOH) Malaysia and the World Health Organization (WHO), Direct Health-care Cost of Noncommunicable Diseases in Malaysia, reveals that hospitalizations, medical tests, medications, and primary care consultations of noncommunicable diseases (NCDs), particularly cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer, annually cost the Malaysian economy upwards of RM 9.65 billion
"Even without the additional threat posed by COVID-19, noncommunicable diseases are a significant health burden and public health challenge in our country. And while they are not an acute emergency or rapidly-moving infectious disease, they are equally devastating to individuals, societies and economies," said Tan Sri Dato' Seri Dr Noor Hisham bin Abdullah, Director General of Health Malaysia.
NCDs are the main cause of death and disability in Malaysia. It is estimated that 1 in 5 adult Malaysians are living with diabetes, 1 in 3 are living with hypertension, and nearly half are overweight or obese (National Health and Morbidity Survey, 2019). The growing prevalence of NCDs is placing an increased strain on the country's health system.
"We saw that among the most vulnerable to the virus are people with underlying health conditions, including NCDs like cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer, who have a higher risk of severe COVID-19 disease and are more likely to die from COVID-19," continued Dr Hisham.
"WHO continues to support the government of Malaysia in its efforts to address the growing challenge of NCDs through supporting addressing the risk factors, encouraging adoption of healthy lifestyles and strengthening primary care for early diagnosis and improved management of NCDs,” said Dr Rabindra Abeyasinghe, WHO Representative in Malaysia.
The report released today utilized data from the year 2017. The secured data were largely restricted to the public sector, and extrapolations to the private sector were based on assumptions. While the cost estimates are based on the best available data, they no doubt underestimate the real cost of the direct health-care costs associated with NCDs in Malaysia.
Aside from the health-care costs, previous studies have estimated the economic loss due to absenteeism, presenteeism in the workplace and the premature death of the working age population as upwards of RM 8.91 billion. In addition, the cost of disability and loss of healthy life years was estimated to be around RM 100.79 billion (The Impact of Noncommunicable Diseases and Their Risk Factors on Malaysia's Gross Domestic Product, 2020).
This information can be used to identify cost-effective ways to prevent NCDs, reduce the costs of NCD management, and prioritize the promotion of a healthy lifestyle. Dr Hisham calls on collaboration to have publicly informed, evidence-based policies that could support the change in Malaysian's behaviour.
“The problem of NCDs in Malaysia is also compounded by the fact that the country has a rapidly ageing population in which the failure to address adequately the challenge of NCDs could significantly impact health-care costs and economic well-being of the community,” added Dr Rabindra.
Malaysia is expected to reach the status of an aged nation by 2030, with people over the age of 65 making up more than 14% of the population. With the population ageing, more and more people are expected to live with NCDs in the long term. Given this demographic change, NCDs' health and economic burden can also be expected to increase over time.
"Increasing awareness about NCDs and their management among the general population and those at risk now will contribute to increased longevity and healthy ageing of Malaysian through a reduction of premature mortality due to NCDs and their complications" said Dr Rabindra.
The report can be downloaded here.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/194054-annual-health-care-cost-cardiovascular-diseases-diabetes-and-cancer-malaysia-exceeds-rm-965




Date: 08 August 2022
Title: New employers guide will support Malaysian rubber industry in fight against forced labour
Content: 08 August 2022
The guide is produced by the Malaysian Rubber Council (MRC) in collaboration with the International Labour Organization (ILO) and through the support of the European Union.
It provides practical guidance to employers in the rubber industry in Malaysia, particularly those employing migrant workers, on how to identify risks of forced labour in the recruitment, employment and sourcing practices, and how to effectively address, prevent and eliminate these risks.
A new guide will strengthen the efforts of employers to prevent and eliminate forced labour in the Malaysian rubber industry. The guide, entitled “Addressing, preventing and eliminating forced labour in the rubber industry in Malaysia: A practical guide for Malaysian employers ” was launched by the Minister of Plantation Industries and Commodities, YB Datuk Hajah Zuraida Kamaruddin at an event in Kuala Lumpur today.

The guide is produced by the Malaysian Rubber Council (MRC) in collaboration with the International Labour Organization (ILO) and through the support of the European Union.

It will assist employers in the Malaysian rubber industry, in particularly those employing migrant workers - on how to identify risks of forced labour in recruitment, employment, and sourcing practices, and how to effectively address, prevent and eliminate these risks.

“This guide forms part of a comprehensive effort to support the Malaysian rubber industry to implement the forced labour policy. Our goal is to foster a more developed and driven future for our beloved Keluarga Malaysia,” said Minister YB Datuk Hajah Zuraida Kamaruddin. “I am confident that the guide will help strengthen efforts to improve the industry's reputation and the nation's standing.”

The guide will help companies understand what forced labour is as well as the international standards, national laws and policies relating to it. It contains guiding principles, due diligence and responsible business conduct, good practices, frequently asked questions and answers on preventing forced labour as well as practical information on developing company policies.

“To avoid forced labour from occurring, this guide will act as a resource to protect employees' rights while supporting Malaysia's business community to eventually enhance workers' productivity,” said Malaysian Rubber Council Chairman, YB Dr Daroyah Alwi.

Supporting the government's mission to educate and raise awareness of forced labour, the Sustainability Division of the MRC in collaboration with the ILO has carried out various awareness raising initiatives. In addition to the guide, a video and training programme for rubber industry stakeholders will also be launched.

Panudda Boonpala, Deputy Regional Director of the ILO Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific remarked, “By investing in decent work and an enabling environment for sustainable enterprises, Malaysia has a unique opportunity to create more and better jobs, increase productivity and skills, and support growth across the rubber glove supply chain. This will ultimately increase its competitiveness in global markets.”

The initiative is a joint effort by the government, businesses, labour unions, civil society, and the ILO.  It is in support of Malaysia's first National Action Plan on Forced Labour as well as Malaysia’s participation as an Alliance 8.7 Pathfinder country to accelerate efforts to end forced labour.

ILO and the European Union are supporting the Malaysian rubber industry through the ‘Sustainable Supply Chains to Build Forward Better’ project. This sets out to strengthen dialogue and promote decent work in Malaysia’s rubber glove supply chain.

“Promoting decent work in global supply chains is a priority of the European Union. We are proud to support Malaysia’s efforts to eradicate forced labour and to improve the working conditions of Malaysians and migrant workers alike,” said His Excellency Michalis Rokas, Ambassador of the European Union to Malaysia. “Apart from remedying obvious human rights issues, these actions will increase Malaysia’s international reputation as a rubber industry leader, facilitate the export of its goods in compliance with international standards and prepare for the upcoming EU legislation in this area.”

About MRC 

The Malaysian Rubber Council (MRC) , formerly known as Malaysian Rubber Export Promotion Council, was incorporated on 14 April 2000 under the Companies Act 1965 as a company limited by guarantee under the Ministry of Plantation Industries and Commodities (MPIC). MRC is governed by a Board of Trustees appointed by the Minister of Plantation Industries and Commodities. MRC is tasked with undertaking market promotion of quality Malaysian rubber and rubber products in world markets. MRC has overseas offices in the US, China, India, Europe and the Middle East. The USA office was set up in Washington DC in February 2001 and serves as a centre of information on Malaysian rubber and rubber products for the American public and end-users. MRC has two offices in China – the Shanghai office was set up in September 2011 and the Guangzhou office in April 2016 with the responsibility to facilitate and assist Malaysian companies seeking to grow their business in China. MRC India was set up in Mumbai in May 2016 to facilitate the export of Malaysian rubber and rubber products and to assist Malaysian companies to grow their business in India. MRC's Europe office is in London which plays an important role to facilitate exports of Malaysian rubber products into Europe by monitoring developments and changes in policies and new regulations concerning the importation and use of rubber products in Europe. MRC’s Middle East office was established in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia in September 2021 with the intent to explore and facilitate potential joint ventures, foreign investment and R&D collaborations in the MENA region.
Wan Laila, Tel: 0193314145
‘Aisyah ‘Izzati, Tel: 0177391219
Malaysian Rubber Council
Strategic Communications Division

Siu Ming Lee
National Project Coordinator
ILO Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
Sustainable Supply Chains to Build Forward Better
Email: siuming@ilo.org
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/194268-new-employers-guide-will-support-malaysian-rubber-industry-fight-against-forced-labour




Date: 03 July 2021
Title: New MIT study says United Nations Pause Campaign slows spread of life-threatening misinformation
Content: 03 July 2021
1 July 2021, New York — Through the course of a tumultuous year globally, the United Nations Verified initiative has worked to cut through the noise on social media -- teaming up with the finest minds in medical science and behavioural research to identify factors prolonging the pandemic.
A major part of that work is the UN’s Pause campaign, which encourages people to pause to check the validity of any information they share. Now, a new study by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) says the Pause campaign can bring about the behavioural change needed to stop the spread of misinformation.
The MIT study, conducted in the UK and the US, found that the simple act of pausing to question the origin, credibility, relevance and accuracy of any information before sharing it on phones, computers and social media platforms, significantly reduced people’s propensity to share misinformation. In the study, participants who saw Pause campaign content were notably less likely to share fake headlines.
“The monumental task of tackling misinformation belongs to all of us. It is about how we can come together to drive social change, shifting behavioural norms and tapping into people’s sense of solidarity to keep each other safe,” said Melissa Fleming, the UN’s Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications.
“The MIT study shows that pausing before sharing is not only possible but also the responsible thing to do, especially in an age where it has become hard to separate the truth from the lies.”
The Pause campaign, created in collaboration with Purpose, a social impact agency, is part of the wider Verified initiative launched by UN Secretary-General António Guterres in May 2020 to deliver trusted COVID-19-related medical and science information and advice, and stop the spread of misinformation. According to the World Health Organization, in the first three months of 2020 alone, nearly 6,000 people were hospitalized because of COVID-19 misinformation.
The Pause campaign, which reached nearly 1 billion people in 2020, is redoubling its efforts to empower more people to share information responsibly. The new phase of the campaign asks the world to take the #PledgetoPause and flood the Internet with the pause symbol.
Guided by research, the campaign is built on the premise that by interrupting, even for a few seconds, the impulse to share something we see -- an urge often fuelled by emotions such as excitement, anger, sadness, elation, and even altruism -- we allow ourselves time to think more critically. Better judgement prevails and fewer bogus claims are circulated.
In the words of the UN Secretary-General: “During the COVID-19 pandemic, the wrong information can be deadly. Take the pledge to pause and help stop the spread of misinformation.”

ABOUT VERIFIED
Verified is a United Nations initiative, in collaboration with Purpose, that aims to empower people around the world with science-based information during the Covid-19 response. Working with UN agencies, influencers, civil society, businesses, and social media platforms, Verified creates and distributes trusted, accurate information and encourages consumers to change their media consumption practices to reduce and stop the spread of misinformation online. Website: https://shareverified.com/en/
ABOUT PAUSE CAMPAIGN
Launched as a part of the UN Verified initiative, the Pause Campaign draws on research from psychologists, neuroscientists and behavioural scientists whose studies indicate that pausing to reflect before sharing can significantly help to reduce the spread of unverified and misleading information. The overall campaign, which was launched a year ago, challenges people to break the habit of sharing shocking or emotive content impulsively and without questioning its accuracy. Website: https://pledgetopause.org
CONTACTS
UN Department of Global Communications
Devi Palanivelu | palanivelu@un.org | +1 917 495 5424
Purpose
Jennifer Minard | jennifer.minard@purpose.com  | +44 787 242 7706
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/134450-new-mit-study-says-united-nations-pause-campaign-slows-spread-life-threatening




Date: 15 June 2021
Title: Strengthening Resilience and Ending Vulnerability in Small Island Developing States
Content: 15 June 2021
Small Island Developing States (SIDS) face a shared set of geographical, environmental, economic, and social challenges, and suffer from unique development needs and extreme vulnerability. Frequent exposures to natural hazards and disasters intensified by climate change and external economic shocks caused by the COVID-19 pandemic are detrimental to these island nations.

Small Island Developing States (SIDS) face a shared set of geographical, environmental, economic, and social challenges, and suffer from unique development needs and extreme vulnerability. Frequent exposures to natural hazards and disasters intensified by climate change and external economic shocks caused by the COVID-19 pandemic are detrimental to these island nations.
The Joint SDG Fund announces a call for proposals focusing on strengthening resilience and ending the vulnerabilities of SIDS to accelerate the SDGs. The overall funding envelope for this Call is US$30 million. All SIDS countries are eligible to receive funding, including countries previously funded in the Joint SDG Fund’s existing portfolios. Intended to be catalytic, funding will support targeting programmatic solutions of 2 years or less, with a budget of US$1 million per country.  Multi-Country Offices will be eligible for funding envelopes corresponding to the countries and populations they serve and be reviewed on case by case basis.
This Call for Proposals will support a new generation of transformative, Government-led, integrated initiatives that leverage the best expertise and resources possible to address complex problems and accelerate progress towards the SDGs.
“We must work together to ensure that the [Decade of Action] delivers for Small Island Developing States. In addressing climate change, enhanced ambition and action are both a priority and a driver of the Decade . . . we need small island developing States leadership more than ever.”  - United Nations Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed
Governments face challenges in accessing financing for Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) implementation and funding modern and resilient social protection systems. Vulnerable groups have been proportionally hit harder by the recent economic crisis. Furthermore, the skills-gap and the impacts of COVID-19 has resulted in higher levels of youth unemployment.
Sustainable growth will require economic diversification and higher participation from a skillful workforce. To prevent disasters, advance the economy and enable the public sector to deliver services to people and enterprises, access to modern innovative technologies, led by digitalization are critical.
In line with the implementation of UN reform agenda, UN Joint Programmes supported by the Fund will demonstrate a new generation of collaboration for results, embedded in the UN Cooperation Frameworks and committed to enhanced national ownership, leadership, and capacities. The strength in partnerships builds resilience and reduces vulnerabilities of Small Island Developing States to leave no one behind.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/131341-strengthening-resilience-and-ending-vulnerability-small-island-developing-states




Date: 04 June 2021
Title: Media Statement by UN in Malaysia
Content: 04 June 2021
To win the fight against COVID-19, one of the most powerful tools is mass vaccination, in addition to the continued use of public health measures such as physical distancing, wearing of masks and handwashing. If a sizeable majority of the population is vaccinated, it will help reduce transmission of the disease and greatly limit severe COVID-19 cases and deaths. This is especially true for vulnerable groups such as undocumented persons who are often living and working in conditions that do not allow for proper physical distancing.
Throughout the pandemic, the UN in Malaysia has been strongly advocating for the inclusion of migrants, refugees and undocumented persons in the COVID-19 response and the National COVID-19 Immunization Programme. These vulnerable groups should also have meaningful access to information so that they are aware of the vaccination plans and where to access the services. The public health logic in a pandemic is that nobody is safe unless everybody is safe.
Furthermore, in press conferences in February and April 2021, the Government has repeated that those without documents will not be detained during vaccination. The UN commends this inclusive approach to keep the entire population safe.
The UN in Malaysia has also discussed with the Government that in order to encourage undocumented people to come forward for vaccination, guarantees from repercussions such as temporary exemption or moratorium from detention and deportation are important. A crackdown on migrants during this critical public health crisis could seriously undermine the public health objective and lead to adverse results.
The UN continues to offer to collaborate with the Government and other stakeholders to help ensure all individuals, regardless of legal status, are included in vaccination plans without repercussions.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/130276-media-statement-un-malaysia




Date: 04 May 2021
Title: Statement by United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet
Content: 04 May 2021
World Press Freedom Day 2021
A free, uncensored and independent press is a cornerstone of democratic societies. It can bring life-saving information in moments of crises;  provide a basis for public participation; and help  ensure accountability and respect for human rights.
World Press Freedom Day is an opportunity to celebrate this fundamental work. Especially today, as we mark the 30th anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration, in which a group of African journalists set out key principles for press freedom.
The COVID-19 crisis has made it clearer that critical reporting on government policies or public figures is all too often met with prosecution. Laws adopted or applied to restrict and criminalise disinformation during the pandemic have also been used by States to target journalists.
Around the world, people have increasingly taken to the streets to demand their economic and social rights, as well as an end to discrimination and systemic racism, impunity, and corruption. Journalists fulfilling their fundamental role of reporting on these social protests have intolerably become targets. Many have been victims of unnecessary and disproportionate use of force by law enforcement, arbitrary arrests, and criminal prosecution.
Attacks, arrests and the criminal prosecution of a journalist has an additional chilling effect of dissuading other journalists from critically reporting on relevant issues. In this way, they impoverish public debate and hamper our ability to respond effectively to societal challenges, including the COVID-19 pandemic.
The work of journalists and media workers will be crucial for the world to recover better from the devastation of this crisis. Objective, trusted, fact-checked news will counter disinformation; help ensure resilient and sustainable solutions to current challenges; demand transparency and accountability; foster trust in institutions.
Contributing to humanity’s well-being, accurate information is a public good. The silencing of a journalist is a loss to society as a whole.
In order to fully celebrate the bravery of journalists in their determination to keep the public informed, we must demand that their rights are respected, protected and fulfilled.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/126178-statement-united-nations-high-commissioner-human-rights-michelle-bachelet




Date: 29 March 2021
Title: World leaders to meet on strengthening financial measures to boost efforts to cope with COVID-19 fallout
Content: 29 March 2021
Calls for additional measures to reduce debt burden and increase liquidity in low and middle-income countries to ensure full recovery
New York, 29 March 2021—With many countries continuing to struggle to overcome the human and economic devastation from COVID-19, UN Secretary-General António Guterres is convening a meeting of world leaders on Monday, 29 March from 10 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. EDT to urge the international community to take additional and urgent action to ensure a robust recovery.
The high-level virtual meeting organized by the Secretary-General together with the Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau and the Prime Minister of Jamaica Andrew Holness aims to underscore the urgency of the need for bolder and concrete action to provide liquidity and address debt vulnerability in developing countries.
The meeting will follow-up on a series of meetings and roundtables held last year to mobilize action to assist the economic recovery from the pandemic that resulted in a series of measures by the international community, but still not sufficient to meet the continuing and deepening crisis that many countries face.
“We are on the verge of a debt crisis. Six countries have already defaulted. One-third of emerging market economies are at high risk of fiscal crisis. And the situation is even worse for least-developed and low-income countries,” said United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres.
“We need now, to allocate new special drawing rights and encourage countries with strong reserve positions to reallocate unused SDRs to countries that need it; extend the G20’s Debt Service Suspension Initiative into 2022; and expand it to include all highly indebted, vulnerable middle-income countries affected by the crisis. We also need to expand the Common Framework for Debt Treatment to other vulnerable countries and provide additional, targeted debt relief and to tackle long-standing weaknesses in the international debt architecture. Otherwise, we risk spiralling deeper into the worst recession since the Great Depression.”
Prime Minister of Jamaica, the Most Honourable Andrew Holness, said, “It has now been over a year since the COVID-19 global health crisis began and it has wreaked tremendous havoc on lives, livelihoods, and the global economy.”
“The COVID-19-induced contraction in economic activity,” he said, “is severely impacting debt sustainability, particularly in low and middle-income countries. In addition to providing critical debt relief and liquidity support, we must create a new international debt architecture that ensures sustainability and encourages the private sector to integrate sustainability into its investment decisions to ensure a faster, stronger and more resilient recovery.”
Prime Minister Holness added, “With the availability of vaccines, we are now able to see a path towards global recovery even as we note that all countries must have sufficient amounts and capacity to vaccinate their populations if we are to achieve inclusive recovery. Let us continue through robust cooperation and coordination to take deliberate actions to reverse the devastating economic effects of the pandemic as we prepare for a future of sustainable growth and development.”
“The world must come together to protect people, save lives, and defeat COVID-19,” said Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. “Our progress has been remarkable, but we know we can’t defeat this virus and build back better at home unless all countries have the resources to respond to and recover from this global challenge. Only through a coordinated global response, can we address the impacts of the pandemic and create jobs, economic growth, and new opportunity for our people and businesses.
New United Nations policy brief on debt crisis
In a new policy brief issued today, “Preventing Debt Crises in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond: The Time to Act is Now,” the Secretary-General says that while many steps taken to date have been significant, they have not been sufficient to help restore economic health. Risks remain high for more countries to tip into a debt crisis, especially if the COVID-19 shock is more protracted and deeper than forecast.
The COVID-19 pandemic, which has resulted in more than 2.7 million deaths and more than 125 million confirmed cases worldwide, has gone beyond a health and humanitarian crisis to also become an unprecedented global development emergency.
More than a year into the pandemic, the Secretary-General says the fiscal impacts of the crisis are triggering debt distress in a growing number of countries and is severely limiting the ability of many countries to invest in recovery and the Sustainable Development Goals, including urgently needed climate action.
He said, “Unless we take decisive action on debt and liquidity, we risk another ‘lost decade’ for many developing countries, putting the SDGs definitively out of reach.”
COVID-19 highlights increasingly unequal world
The current economic situation has highlighted growing inequalities between and within countries that pose significant threats to global efforts to build back better.
COVID-19-related economic shocks have already led credit rating agencies to downgrade the credit worthiness of 42 countries since the start of the pandemic, including six developed countries, 27 emerging market economies, and nine least developed and low-income countries.
Unprecedented health, social and economic measures over the last year have helped control the spread of the deadly virus, save lives and mitigate the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic. These emergency policies succeeded in flattening the curve of contagion and saved lives, but they also resulted the first increase in extreme poverty since 1998, a 4.3% drop in global GDP and the loss of an equivalent of 144 million jobs in 2020 alone.
Many countries responded with extraordinary fiscal support measures, taking advantage of low borrowing costs, with developed countries accounting for the overwhelming share, around US$18 trillion. The international community has mobilized a strong response including emergency financing from international financial institutions, support for humanitarian partners, and access to medical countermeasures such as vaccines.  Many developing countries, and least developed countries, in particular, which suffered from high debt levels before the pandemic, seeing their fiscal and external financing position further deteriorate in the course of 2020, have not been able to provide much needed stimulus support in adequate measure.
While some middle-income countries have returned to international bond markets since April 2020, only two countries in Sub-Saharan Africa have been able to access markets; and some countries, including least developed countries with very high refinancing needs in 2021, will not have access to financial markets at affordable rates. In addition, many of these countries have already seen access to foreign currency curtailed through non-resident capital flight, and contractions in trade, tourism, remittances and foreign direct investment.
The rapid growth of financing needs and the collapse in revenues and GDP growth associated with the pandemic have exacerbated debt burden risks across the globe. More than half of the least developed and low-income countries that use the IMF World Bank Debt Sustainability Framework are now assessed at a high risk of debt distress or in debt distress and, according to some estimates, more than a third of emerging market economies are at high risk of fiscal crises.
Need for debt relief
Debt relief will be needed to create space for investments in recovery and for achieving the SDGs, including climate action. Even in cases of elevated debt, new borrowing can lead to improved creditworthiness if it finances productive investments. Debt relief can also free up resources, create conditions under which countries can return to voluntary market access, and may lower a country’s overall borrowing costs, with positive impacts across the whole economy.
Call for action on liquidity, fresh financing and ODA
The Secretary-General, in the new UN policy brief, calls on governments to provide fresh concessional financing for developing countries, especially LDCs and SIDS, recapitalize multilateral development banks and accelerate the timetable for replenishing the funds, meet ODA commitments and provide long-term financing to developing countries for investment in long-term growth and development.
In support of recent endorsements from the G7, the brief also calls for a new general allocation of special drawing rights (SDRs) reiterating the need to combine a voluntary reallocation of SDRs from developed to developing countries.
And the brief calls on G20 to extend the World Bank’s Debt Suspension Initiative (DSSI) until the end of June 2022 and include middle-income countries, notably small island developing states that have been gravely affected by the crisis.
The policy brief also calls on the G20 to extend the eligibility to debt relief under the Common Framework for Debt Treatment Beyond the DSSI to other vulnerable countries on a case-by-case basis; and consider other mechanisms that would allow countries to access the Common Framework without creating a stigma or compromising the credit rating of the beneficiaries, including funds and other instruments within existing institutions.  Finally, the brief calls on countries and the international financial institutions to seize the moment to address long-standing weaknesses in the international debt architecture.
Participants at the High-level meeting
Moderated by BBC news anchor Laura Trevelyan, the meeting of Heads of State and Government will feature opening remarks by the UN Secretary-General and Prime Ministers Trudeau and Holness. It will also feature Heads of State and Government and include participation by IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva, World Bank Group President David Malpass, OECD Secretary-General Ángel Gurría and WTO Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala.
[END]
About the High-level meeting
The high-level meeting will be webcast at: http://webtv.un.org/
The full list of speakers will be posted on the High-Level Event website, which can be found at: https://www.un.org/en/coronavirus/financing-development.
An embargoed copy of the Secretary-General’s Policy Brief can be found here.
Media contacts
United Nations: Dan Shepard, UN Department of Global Communications, email: shepard@un.org, tel: +1 646 675 3286
Canada: Office of the Prime Minister, PMO Media Relations, email: media@pmo-cpm.gc.ca
Jamaica: Kimberley McLeod and Naomi Francis, Office of the Prime Minister of Jamaica, email: Kimberley.mcleod@opm.gov.jm and naomi.francis@opm.gov.jm

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/124787-world-leaders-meet-strengthening-financial-measures-boost-efforts-cope-covid-19-fallout




Date: 12 February 2021
Title: Vaccination for all to Leave No One Behind.
Content: 12 February 2021
By the United Nations in Malaysia

The United Nations in Malaysia welcomes the statement by the Special Committee on COVID-19 Vaccine Supply (JKJAV) that all foreign citizens, including in principle those who are undocumented  will be ensured free access to the COVID-19 vaccines under the National Immunisation Programme.
This move by the Government, exemplifies the spirit of leaving no one behind that underpins the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Inclusion of these vulnerable groups in the Malaysian Government Vaccination Plan will go a long way in ensuring the well-being and health of everyone in the country. An effective Covid-19 response can only be achieved when healthcare and immunization services are made freely accessible to all, including those who are most vulnerable during this crisis e.g. migrant workers, refugees, asylum seekers, the stateless and undocumented persons.
None of us are safe until all of us are safe. Malaysia sets a good example in this regard that we hope other countries in the region and elsewhere will follow.
The United Nations and its agencies stand ready to provide continued support to the Government of Malaysia in its Covid-19 response and in identifying opportunities within this devastating health and socio-economic crisis to build back better, guided by the transformative framework of the SDGs towards a more inclusive and sustainable future for all.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/111652-vaccination-all-leave-no-one-behind




Date: 11 February 2021
Title: Vaccination For All To Leave No One Behind
Content: 11 February 2021
By the United Nations in Malaysia
The United Nations in Malaysia welcomes the statement by the Special Committee on COVID-19 Vaccine Supply (JKJAV) that all foreign citizens, including in principle those who are undocumented  will be ensured free access to the COVID-19 vaccines under the National Immunisation Programme.
This move by the Government, exemplifies the spirit of leaving no one behind that underpins the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Inclusion of these vulnerable groups in the Malaysian Government Vaccination Plan will go a long way in ensuring the well-being and health of everyone in the country. An effective Covid-19 response can only be achieved when healthcare and immunization services are made freely accessible to all, including those who are most vulnerable during this crisis e.g. migrant workers, refugees, asylum seekers, the stateless and undocumented persons.
None of us are safe until all of us are safe. Malaysia sets a good example in this regard that we hope other countries in the region and elsewhere will follow.
The United Nations and its agencies stand ready to provide continued support to the Government of Malaysia in its Covid-19 response and in identifying opportunities within this devastating health and socio-economic crisis to build back better, guided by the transformative framework of the SDGs towards a more inclusive and sustainable future for all.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/217345-vaccination-all-leave-no-one-behind




Date: 09 February 2021
Title: UNHRD Malaysia and HELP Logistics are organising the Medical Logistics in Pandemics (MLP) course
Content: 09 February 2021
The course, which will be a first come first serve basis will begin on March 1, 2021 over a three-week period with a live virtual session on the fourth week to conclude the training.


UNHRD Malaysia and HELP Logistics Medical Logistics in Pandemics (MLP) course is a blended learning programme aimed at equipping aid workers and health staff with the most essential supply chain knowledge in the context of medical operations. Special focus will be put on the current impact of COVID-19.
The course consists of three main modules that are divided into 4-5 sub modules. Each module must be completed in sequence before advancing to the next. Completing of the course is after successful completion of all modules and sub modules and the respective quizzes after each sub module.
The total duration is expected to be 8-10 hours with each sub module lasting around 15 minutes being completed without a time limit. The final live session will have a time limit and must be completed in 120 minutes.
Apply for the course through the link here and submit an application. The deadline for applications is February 22nd.
For queries, please contact Azura binti Ibrahim at 014-3370934 / azura.ibrahim@wfp.org

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/111106-unhrd-malaysia-and-help-logistics-are-organising-medical-logistics-pandemics-mlp-course




Date: 17 December 2020
Title: First Online Youth Consultation on Preventing Violent Extremism Through Sport
Content: 17 December 2020
The United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) is pleased to launch a call for applications for the first Online Youth Consultation on Preventing Violent Extremism through Sport (taking place on January 20-21, 2021)
The United Nations Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) is pleased to launch a call for applications for the first Online Youth Consultation on Preventing Violent Extremism through Sport (taking place on January 20-21, 2021) within the framework of the UN Global Programme on Security of Major Sporting Events, and Promotion of Sport and its Values as a Tool to Prevent Violent Extremism, implemented by the United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism (UNOCT) in partnership with UNAOC, United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI) and the International Centre for Sport and Security (ICSS).
The consultation aims to gather the input and guidance of young people in developing various outputs such as an awareness campaign to be launched concurrently with global sporting events next year and with the involvement of professional athletes; a policy guide; a handbook; and an app. These products will aim to advance the power of sport and its social values as a tool to prevent violent extremism, and to strengthen the engagement and cooperation of youth and Member States in using sport to promote sustainable peace and development.
Consider applying to be one of the selected participants in this United Nations-led first Online Youth Consultation on Preventing Violent Extremism Through Sport if you:
There are no restrictions with regard to geographic location. The deadline to submit your application is 24 December 2020, 4:00PM Eastern Daylight Time (New York).
Further details and instructions on how to apply are available at: https://apply.unaoc.org/youth-sport
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/105506-first-online-youth-consultation-preventing-violent-extremism-through-sport




Date: 11 December 2020
Title: Op-ed article by UN Secretary-General António Guterres - Carbon Neutrality By 2050: The World’s Most Urgent Mission
Content: 11 December 2020
World marks the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change
As the world marks the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change, a promising movement for carbon neutrality is taking shape.  By next month, countries representing more than 65 per cent of harmful greenhouse gasses and more than 70 per cent of the world economy will have committed to achieve net zero emissions by the middle of the century.
At the same time, the main climate indicators are worsening.  While the Covid-19 pandemic has temporarily reduced emissions, carbon dioxide levels are still at record highs – and rising.  The past decade was the hottest on record; Arctic sea ice in October was the lowest ever, and apocalyptic fires, floods, droughts and storms are increasingly the new normal.  Biodiversity is collapsing, deserts are spreading, oceans are warming and choking with plastic waste.  Science tells us that unless we cut fossil fuel production by 6 per cent every year between now and 2030, things will get worse.  Instead, the word is on track for a 2 per cent annual rise.
Pandemic recovery gives us an unexpected yet vital opportunity to attack climate change, fix our global environment, re-engineer economies and re-imagine our future.  Here is what we must do:
First, we need build a truly global coalition for carbon neutrality by 2050.
The European Union has committed to do so. The United Kingdom, Japan, the Republic of Korea and more than 110 countries have done the same.  So, too, has the incoming United States administration.  China has pledged to get there before 2060.
Every country, city, financial institution and company should adopt plans for net zero -- and act now to get on the right path to that goal, which means cutting global emissions by 45 per cent by 2030 compared with 2010 levels.  In advance of next November’s UN Climate Conference in Glasgow, Governments are obligated by the Paris Agreement to be ever more ambitious every five years and submit strengthened commitments known as Nationally Determined Contributions, and these NDCs must show true ambition for carbon neutrality.
Technology is on our side.  It costs more to simply run most of today’s coal plants than it does to build new renewable plants from scratch.  Economic analysis confirms the wisdom of this path.  According to the International Labour Organization, despite inevitable job losses, the clean energy transition will create 18 million net new jobs by 2030.  But we must recognize the human costs of decarbonization, and support workers with social protection, re-skilling and up-skilling so that the transition is just.
Second, we need to align global finance with the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals, the world’s blueprint for a better future.
It is time to put a price on carbon; end fossil fuel subsidies and finance; stop building new coal power plants; shift the tax burden from income to carbon, from taxpayers to polluters; make climate-related financial risk disclosures mandatory; and integrate the goal of carbon neutrality into all economic and fiscal decision-making.  Banks must align their lending with the net zero objective, and asset owners and managers must decarbonize their portfolios.
Third, we must secure a breakthrough on adaptation and resilience to help those already facing dire impacts of climate change.
That’s not happening enough today: adaptation represents only 20 per cent of climate finance.  This hinders our efforts to reduce disaster risk.  It also isn’t smart; every $1 invested in adaptation measures could yield almost $4 in benefits.  Adaptation and resilience are especially urgent for small island developing states, for which climate change is an existential threat.
Next year gives us a wealth of opportunities to address our planetary emergencies, through major United Nations conferences and other efforts on biodiversity, oceans, transport, energy, cities and food systems.  One of our best allies is nature itself: nature-based solutions could provide one-third of the net reductions in greenhouse gas emissions required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement.  Indigenous knowledge can help to point the way.  And as humankind devises strategies for preserving the environment and building a green economy, we need more women decision-makers at the table.
COVID and climate have brought us to a threshold.  We cannot go back to the old normal of inequality and fragility; instead we must step towards a safer, more sustainable path.  This is a complex policy test and an urgent moral test.  With decisions today setting our course for decades to come, we must make pandemic recovery and climate action two sides of the same coin.

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/104773-op-ed-article-un-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-carbon-neutrality-2050-world%E2%80%99s-most




Date: 08 December 2020
Title: Malaysia celebrates Human Rights Day: Recover Better – Stand Up For Human Rights
Content: 08 December 2020
Malaysia joins the international community in celebrating the International Human Rights Day which falls on 10 December every year.
For the celebration this year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) and the Legal Affairs Division of the Prime Minister’s Department (BHEUU) will once again collaborate with SUHAKAM and the United Nations in Malaysia to organise a forum.
This year’s theme “Recover Better – Stand Up for Human Rights” is apt as the world is facing the dire impact of COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented public health emergency with significant socio-economic repercussions that impact the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and human rights dimensions. The forum will focus on the various challenges faced by different communities in the face of COVID-19, weigh the dimensions of human rights versus recovery and preserving life, as well as to explore best practices in moving ahead and rebuilding together.
The forum aims to promote public awareness and support for human rights, the work of various actors dedicated to promoting human rights, especially amongst youth, and to promote the spirit of cooperation and dialogue between various stakeholders, particularly the Government, National Human Rights Institution, academia, private sector and civil society.
We are pleased to invite the public to join us in this Forum on 10 December 2020, which will be held virtually through ZOOM application and YouTube Live. Further details on the Forum are available on the social media pages of MFA, BHEUU, SUHAKAM and United Nations in Malaysia.
PUTRAJAYA
8 DECEMBER 2020
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/104283-malaysia-celebrates-human-rights-day-recover-better-%E2%80%93-stand-human-rights




Date: 20 October 2020
Title: Malaysia Adopts the United Nations’ International Year of Creative Economy for Sustainable Development 2021
Content: 20 October 2020
The forum was organised by the Ministry of Communications and Multimedia Malaysia (KKMM), the United Nations Malaysia, and MyCreative Ventures. It presented a follow-up dialogue from MyCreative Ventures’ two Creative Economy 2021 Forums on The Creative, Arts & Cultural Industries Reimagined and Focus of Arts and Culture, which took place on 6th and 20th October respectively, in conjunction with Budget 2021.
The forum featured a panel discussion on global trends in supporting the creative economy with panelists Marisa Henderson, Chief of Creative Economy Programme (UNCTAD), Moe Chiba, Head of Unit Culture (UNESCO), and Keiko Hagihara Bang, esteemed producer and CEO of Bang Singapore, followed by a ‘Lightning Talks’ session by speakers Niloy Banerjee, UNDP Resident Representative for Malaysia, Eddin Khoo, Director and founder of PUSAKA, Nizam Razak, the CEO of Animonsta Studios, and Jo Kukathas, Director of The Instant Cafe Theatre.
The Creative Economy is the most rapidly growing sector in the world economy and also deserves merit for creating people-centred value and fostering sustainable urban development. It has been given recognition by the United Nations in line with the UN 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals.
Stefan Priesner, United Nation’s Resident Coordinator for Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei Darussalam said, “The creative economy is key, because creativity stimulates innovation. And innovation is at the heart of the Sustainable Development Goals. Malaysia, as a hot pot of culture and creativity has the potential to further develop the creative economy as a high growth sector – with a clear and concise national strategy that will boost positioning, employment, productivity, and sustainable growth.”
Minister of Communications and Multimedia, YB Dato Saifuddin Abdullah explained: “Malaysia will adopt the United Nations’ International Year on Creative Economy for Sustainable Development 2021, and find the United Nations’ appeal to be very much in line with Malaysia’s vision of fostering a thriving and sustainable Creative Economy. By taking this step, we are sending the message to the world, that Malaysia welcomes the global effort of acknowledging the significance of the creative economy in promoting sustained and inclusive economic growth, fostering innovation and providing opportunities, benefits and empowerment for all as well as respect for all human rights.”
KKMM will be working closely with the United Nations, its agencies such as UNDP, UNCTAD and UNESCO and all relevant stakeholders to promote the global effort. The Ministry also welcome private organisations to collaborate with us towards achieving the objectives of our adoption of the international year. To this end, MyCreative and other agencies, with the support of the ministry, will be planning and hosting a series of special events throughout the year, details of which will be announced soon.
In his closing remarks, Mr Niloy Banerjee, the Resident Representative for UNDP, emphasized the need to value the creative and cultural industry at its correct economic valuation - both as hard and intangible contributions to economy and society. He underscored the power of art and culture, which can be harnessed for transformative gains such as fostering social cohesion and engendering environmental friendly behaviour. He offered that UNDP and the UN system would continue to support the lead of the Malaysian government in providing a nurturing ecosystem for the creative economy - in the forthcoming UN International Year of Creative Economy for Sustainable Development."
At the 74th session of the UN General Assembly held in November 2019, 2021 was declared as the International Year of Creative Economy for Sustainable Development. Indonesia was the main sponsor of the proposal, which was presented by a global grouping of countries, including Australia, China, India, Indonesia, Mongolia, Philippines and Thailand. The proposal recognises the need to promote sustained and inclusive economic growth, foster innovation and provide opportunities, benefits and empowerment for all and respect for all human rights.
It encourages all Member States, organizations of the United Nations system and other international and regional organizations, as well as civil society, private sector, non-governmental organizations, academics and individuals, to observe the International Year in an appropriate manner and in accordance with national priorities, in order to raise awareness, promote cooperation and networking, encourage sharing best practices and experiences, enhance human resource capacity, promote an enabling environment at all levels as well as tackle the challenges of creative economy.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/98282-malaysia-adopts-united-nations%E2%80%99-international-year-creative-economy-sustainable-development




Date: 21 August 2020
Title: UNFPA Malaysia allocates 5,000 basic dignity kits to refugees & migrant women and girls in Malaysia
Content: 21 August 2020
To alleviate some of the current economic and social hardships faced by Malaysia’s refugee & migrant communities in Malaysia, the United Nations Population Fund Malaysia (UNFPA) in collaboration with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and World Food Programme (WFP) have prepared 5000 Basic Dignity Kits for distribution.
The event was held on Friday at the United Nations Humanitarian Response Depot in Shah Alam (UNHRD), with a signing ceremony between the two United Nations agencies to officiate the handing over the of the Basic Dignity Kits for distribution. UNHCR will be working with established Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) & Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) who are already interfacing with refugee & migrant communities to effectively distribute these kits.
In his opening speech, Stefan Priesner, United Nations Resident Coordinator for Malaysia, Singapore & Brunei, touched on how the COVID-19 pandemic has deeply impacted refugee & migrant communities in Malaysia, as economic hardships and social circumstances have curtailed their access to primary essentials especially with regards to hygiene and personal items.
“These dignity kits are a small contribution to all the essential needs of vulnerable groups in Malaysia. Just like the hashtag #kitajagakita, the road to recovery is not just the work of the Government but by everyone – private sector, CSO and each and every one of us. But more work needs to be done. The economic and socio-economic recovery will only be achieved with inclusivity as its goal and a spirit of solidarity with those most in need. We are only as strong as our weakest link.”

The Basic Dignity Kits provided will include basic sanitary needs including soaps, oral health kits, reusable sanitary pads, flashlights, washing powder as well as an information booklet for women and young girls of reproductive age.
The information booklet, developed by UNFPA, UNHCR and IOM, focuses on providing information on Gender Based Violence, Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights and Mental Health and Psycho-Social support. They are complete with illustrated explanations and guidelines for women and girls to identify and understand threats, manage them as well as ways to prevent and safely remove themselves from volatile situations.
Elaborating on the Dignity Kits & booklet, UNFPA Malaysia’s representative Marcela Suazo explained that as these populations were left to fend for themselves, it leaves the women and girls in these communities vulnerable to instances of violence, emotional abuse and much more. “If you take into consideration their current limited access to essential hygiene and sanitation, it can stigmatize women and girls and further erode their state of mind, which in turn creates a potential chain reaction of trauma and mental anguish. The booklet gives them the knowledge and avenues they need to overcome and protect themselves and their loved ones.”
The booklets are translated by UNHCR and IOM into 5 different languages along with audio recordings for those who have difficulty reading or are differently abled. Participating CSOs & NGOs have been briefed and guided on the process of effectively distributing these Dignity Kits to ensure their optimum usage and effectiveness.
In his welcome remarks, Carlos Melendez, Head of World Food Programme & UNHRD Malaysia, remarked “Usually we distribute these Basic Dignity Kits at times of extreme duress and national crisis such as war or natural disasters, but the COVID-19 pandemic is unprecedented in its speed and fallout and these kits will play an essential role in alleviating despair and keeping hope alive – especially for migrant and refugee women and young girls”.
Apart from a select few members of the media, the event was also attended by representatives from Malaysian organizations such as Mercy Malaysia, Rohingya Women Development Network, all of whom will play a key role in the distribution of the Basic Dignity Kits.
Thomas Albrecht, UNHCR’s Malaysia representative commended UNFPA, saying that “We wish to express our deep appreciation to UNFPA for including refugees in their efforts on making feminine hygiene items accessible to communities in need. In any emergency, sexual reproductive health rights are often the most neglected basic need. These Kits will be distributed to refugee women and girls in Malaysia to ensure they have access to hygiene items and safe sanitary practices. As an additional step, UNHCR has recorded instructions on how to use the Kit in audio files on an MP3 player, and in five languages most commonly spoken by refugees”.
The event concluded with a signing ceremony between UNFPA and UNHCR signifying the handing over of the Dignity Kits along with distribution commitments.

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/98771-unfpa-malaysia-allocates-5000-basic-dignity-kits-refugees-migrant-women-and-girls-malaysia




Date: 17 July 2020
Title: UNDP Malaysia contributes $202,000 to Malaysia’s COVID-19 Fund
Content: 17 July 2020

The cheque was presented by Niloy Banerjee, UNDP Resident Representative for Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei Darussalam to the Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department (Special Functions), Datuk Seri Mohd Redzuan Md Yusof alongside Dato' Mohtar bin Mohd Abd Rahman, Director General of NADMA at the Perdana Putra Complex in Putrajaya.
Niloy congratulated the Government of Malaysia, NADMA, and especially the health sector for its success in responding and mitigating the transmissions of COVID-19 in the country with 8,538 numbers of fully recovered patients as at 16 July.
“UNDP Malaysia stands firmly with the Government of Malaysia and its people during this critical time. The COVID-19 pandemic is much more than a health crisis and requires international cooperation and solidarity. We need to come together as a global community to eliminate the virus and work towards the long-term recovery from the crisis, and prepare for tackling future challenges,” said Niloy Banerjee.
Building on UNDP’s long working relationship with NADMA on disaster preparedness, UNDP will also be supporting multi-sectoral approaches across government, through a strategic analysis of Malaysia's response to COVID-19 and the distillation of lessons for emergency response and preparedness planning. The specific output of this undertaking is a General Observers Report expected to be released in October 2020.
UNDP Malaysia’s Response to COVID-19
In line with the UNDP Strategic Plan 2018 - 2020 and UNDP's mission of eradicating poverty, reducing inequalities, and building resilience to crisis and shocks, UNDP Malaysia is supporting the country to urgently and effectively achieve the recovery from COVID-19, safeguarding progress on the SDGs, and delivering on the pledge to leave no one behind.
As the UN’s lead agency on socio-economic impact and recovery, UNDP interventions are part of the overall UN COVID-19 response plan in Malaysia. Tackling COVID-19 and its impacts will require partners who can work across systems and sectors and in contexts that are both complex and uncertain.
To date, UNDP Malaysia has carried out the Rapid Assessment on Household Income Survey (RaHIS) to understand the impact of COVID-19 on Malaysians’ household income. Building on the nationwide survey, UNDP also worked with the Langkawi Development Authority (LADA), and Iskandar Regional Development Authority in providing technical support for a tailormade survey specifically for the residents in Langkawi and state of Johor. UNDP Malaysia has also successfully conducted the Nationwide Telecommuting Survey to understand the experience of Malaysians working from home during the Movement Control Order (MCO) in order to identify the gaps, opportunities and needs to improve disaster readiness for ordinary working operations in the Malaysian context. The findings of these surveys are expected to be released in August 2020. In addition to this, UNDP also supported the development of the Jejak Johor tracing app which was launched earlier in May.
Building on ongoing engagement of policy advisory support to the Government, UNDP is also developing macro and micro levels of economic analysis to assess socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 to national development priorities, vulnerable groups and SME/MSMEs. The impact assessment analyses will be done with a view to develop policy recommendations towards creating a more resilient and responsive system post COVID-19 and building continuity between immediate measures and longer-term recovery. This offer will leverage on various analytical tools and intelligence gathering platforms, to support formulation of policies for a more sustainable recovery.
In areas of an inclusive and integrated crisis management and multi-sectoral response and advisory services, UNDP collaborated with the Malaysian Plastics Manufacturers Association (MPMA) to increase local production of medical supplies by industrial repurposing of resources and factory operations within several industries. To ensure effective and efficient delivery of social and financial assistance to vulnerable groups, UNDP in collaboration with sister agency, the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) has undertaken an assessment on feasibility of existing and potential cash assistance and e-commerce platforms in support of efforts to build back better and foster community resilience in the long term, especially among rural and vulnerable groups. A pilot will be implemented in Sabah based on assessment finding and results will be presented as a case study for policy recommendation and further scale up in other rural communities in Sabah and nationwide.
In the longer term, UNDP will continue to look at innovative ways to support Malaysia to better prevent and manage such crises and ensure that the country makes full use of the lessons learned from this crisis to build back better.
Click here for more information on UNDP Malaysia’s COVID-19 response.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/98718-undp-malaysia-contributes-202000-malaysia%E2%80%99s-covid-19-fund




Date: 02 May 2020
Title: Use Alternatives to Detention in the Fight Against COVID-19
Content: 02 May 2020
This is in line with the Government of Malaysia’s positive announcement in March that screening and treatment for all foreigners, regardless of their immigration status, will be provided free of charge during the Movement Control Order (MCO). It took time to build the confidence of the part of the population who are undocumented to come forward. The Government’s public statements and reassurance were instrumental.
Inclusive and non-discriminatory policies are essential to strengthen the response and recovery from Covid-19. Every person, especially the most vulnerable – including migrants, refugees, asylum-seekers and the stateless should have access to health services and assistance without fear of negative repercussions.
Yesterday, reports emerged of large-scale arrests of undocumented migrants taking place in various Enhanced Movement Control Order locations. It is of grave concern that the arrests include people in situations of enhanced vulnerability, such as families with very young children.
The fear of arrest and detention may push these vulnerable population groups further into hiding and prevent them from seeking treatment, with negative consequences for their own health and creating further risks to the spreading of COVID-19 to others.
As reiterated by the UN Secretary General`s appeal ‘the world is only as strong as its weakest link’; and what applies to countries also applies to communities within countries.
In line with Article 25(1) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and with the “Leaving no one behind” commitment of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, all States parties must ensure that the welfare of the most vulnerable, including migrant communities, are indeed not left behind in this fight against the virus.
This means to implement as a matter of priority non-custodial and community-based alternatives to detention, and where relevant to avoid immigration detention all together. Overcrowded conditions in immigration detention centres carry a high risk of increasing Covid-19 infection among both detainees and staff. It is especially important to prioritise the release of all children and their caregivers from immigration detention.
Covid-19 does not discriminate. Equally we should not discriminate in our fight to end Covid-19. We all must ensure that nobody is left behind.
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/98719-use-alternatives-detention-fight-against-covid-19




Date: 28 February 2020
Title: 2.5 Million doses of polio vaccines deployed to stamp out polio in Sabah
Content: 28 February 2020
On the 27th of February, the Ministry of Health of Malaysia received 2.5 million doses of monovalent oral polio vaccine type 2 (mOPV2) from the World Health Organization (WHO) and managed by the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) to be delivered to over 1 million children below 13 years old in Sabah to control the spread of polio.
To date, Malaysia reported three (3) Acute Flaccid Paralysis (AFP) cases involving a three (3) month old child in Tuaran district, an eight (8) year old child in Sandakan district, and a eleven (11) year old child in Kinabatangan district. A healthy child in Semporna district was also found positive with the virus through targeted healthy children sampling, meanwhile five (5) environmental samples have tested positive of the virus in Semporna and Kota Kinabalu.
As an added precaution, the Government of Malaysia has released additional allocation to conduct the immunization campaign bivalent oral polio vaccine (bOPV) to children across Sabah since 27 December 2019.
The Sabah State Health Department received the support from Sabah State and state government agencies as well as non-governmental organisations and volunteer groups such as the Malaysian Red Crescent, Tzu Chi, Persatuan Pesara Jururawat, Majlis Pengurusan Komuniti Kampung (MPKK), Ahli Kumpulan Sokongan Penyusuan Susu Ibu (AKSI), COMBI, Sukarelawan Pekerja Kesihatan Awam (SPKA), teachers, Clinical Advisory Panel, medical students from University Malaysia Sabah (UMS), and students from the Health Ministry’s Training Institute (ILKKM) at Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan and Tawau. The vaccination campaigns were conducted by mobile teams and also at government clinics, community halls, business centres, religious sites, and more.
The Ministry of Health Malaysia will continue collaborating with WHO and UNICEF in controlling the polio outbreak response in Sabah state until the outbreak is declared over. The mOPV2 vaccine provided by UNICEF will be used alongside bOPV provided by the Government of Malaysia to ensure complete protection from the virus. Both these vaccines (mOPV and bOPV) will provide immunization to children as well as stop the spread of the polio virus to other children.
All children under 13 years of age, even those who have received inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) according to the national immunization schedule, will be vaccinated with both oral polio vaccine (OPV). The success of this campaign depends on the immunization coverage of at least 95% on all children under the age of 13 receiving OPV.
The Ministry of Health Malaysia would like to inform that it is safe and necessary for children to receive multiple types and doses of OPV for optimal outcomes. Therefore, the Ministry of Health Malaysia urges parents, guardians as well as childcare centres, kindergartens and school authorities to ensure that children receive OPV during the vaccination campaigns.
End Polio Infections, Restore Polio Free Status in Malaysia
Thank you.
DATUK DR. NOOR HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH
DIRECTOR GENERAL, MINISTRY OF HEALTH, MALAYSIA
28 FEBRUARY 2020

United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/98773-25-million-doses-polio-vaccines-deployed-stamp-out-polio-sabah




Date: 09 June 2019
Title: National Forum Addresses Forced Labour and Human Rights in Malaysia
Content: 09 June 2019
The one-day event, on September 3rd, served as a platform for 140 policymakers, industry experts, government officials, and representatives of recruitment companies and civil society groups to discuss key challenges faced by businesses when implementing measures to tackle modern slavery and forced labour in supply chains.
Labour law reforms and recommendations, strengthening migrant worker’s rights through coordinated action, and the business case for greater transparency in global supply chains were among the topics discussed.
Over half of the world’s 25 million victims of human trafficking and slavery are found in the Asia-Pacific region. The majority are linked to the formal economy and global supply chains. While migrant workers are often in demand to fill critical labour shortages, they are frequently more vulnerable to exploitation and unfair labour practices than locally recruited labour.
Minister of Human Resources M. Kula Segaran told delegates that Malaysia stands against forced labour practices in global supply chains and the recruitment process.
“We are a transit and destination country for migrant workers mainly from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Myanmar, Nepal, the Philippines and Viet Nam. It is our responsibility to ensure we explore collaborative policies and initiatives to eliminate forced labour and reimagine business modalities,” he said.
He noted that the government has undertaken several corrective measures to address modern-day challenges related to forced labour practices in the country. The Department of Labour conducted over 40,000 inspections between March 2018 and April 2019 and resolved 14,009 cases of labour disputes. In this period, labour courts ordered employers to provide workers with back wages of over RM34.4 million (USD 8.26 million.)
“There has never been a more urgent time to address this problem, which is occurring right in our backyard. While it is a challenging issue to tackle, a collective, progressive and comprehensive answer to combating modern-day slavery must be put into action now,” said IOM Malaysia Head of Office Kendra Rinas.
“IOM’s Corporate Responsibility in Eliminating Slavery and Trafficking (CREST) initiative offers a regional partnership approach. It proactively addresses vulnerabilities faced by migrant workers and aims to realize the potential of ethical business by working with global and local brands, as well as their suppliers and business partners, in enhancing transparency in labour supply chains,” she added.
Between 2010 and 2017 the number of documented foreign workers in Malaysia increased from 1.7 million to 2.2 million. By the end of 2018, there were also an estimated 2 to 4 million undocumented migrants working in the country. The majority are from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Myanmar and Nepal.
According to the US State Department’s 2019 Trafficking in Persons (TIP) report, some are subjected to practices that indicate forced labour. These include passport retention, contract violations, restricted movement, wage fraud, and imposition of significant debts by recruitment agents or employers, among other violations of their rights. They include domestic workers and migrants employed particularly in agricultural plantations, construction and the garment industry.
Recruiters play a central role in the ethical recruitment of migrant workers and IOM’s International Recruitment Integrity System (IRIS) is designed to strengthen management practices and create a new kind of demand for responsible recruitment. It promotes the “Employer Pays Principle,” which calls on employers to pay the full costs of recruitment, while seeking greater overall transparency.
Datuk Godfrey Gregory Joitol, Vice Chairman of SUHAKAM, told participants that while historically the protection of human rights has been considered a government responsibility, times have changed.  “While governments have the primary duty to protect, respect and fulfil human rights, business organizations have an important complementary role to play in addressing the challenges of forced labour practices,” he said.
In June, the Malaysian government committed to develop a National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights to complement and build on various government- related initiatives and policies, and to create an enabling business environment for responsible investment in the country.
For more information please contact Malarvili Meganathan at IOM Malaysia, Tel. +60392355476, Email: mmeganathan@iom.int
United Nations Offices
Level 10, Menara PjH,
2, Jalan Tun Abdul Razak, Precinct 2,
62100 Putrajaya, Malaysia
URL: https://malaysia.un.org/en/98715-national-forum-addresses-forced-labour-and-human-rights-malaysia




