Date: 25 April 2024
Title: UN Expert: Maldives Stuck Between Rock and Hard Place on Climate Change Issue
Content: 25 April 2024
Statement at the conclusion of country visit to Maldives Dr. David R. Boyd Special Rapporteur on the human right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment April 16-April 25, 2024
The beach where I used to play, collect shells and watch sunsets no longer exists. Naff Asim, Maldivian marine biologist and youth climate activist1

Introduction
Today, I conclude my ten-day visit to Maldives. Scattered like sparkling jewels across a vast swath of the Indian Ocean, the islands of Maldives are a tropical paradise. Yet Maldives faces a potentially dystopian future because of the climate emergency caused by wealthy nations and wealthy individuals. With the highest point of land only 2.5 meters above sea level, scientific projections indicate that Maldives could disappear completely beneath the ocean at some point in the future due to sea level rise. Long before that ultimate catastrophe, Maldives could become virtually uninhabitable due to the combined impacts of sea level rise, floods, coastal erosion, increased frequency of extreme weather events (e.g., cyclones, thunderstorms, storm surges, and strong winds), severe heat, intense and unpredictable rainfall patterns, extended dry seasons, saltwater contamination of freshwater and agricultural lands, increased sea surface temperatures, vector borne diseases, ocean acidification, and coral bleaching. These devastating present and future impacts of the climate emergency on the Maldives and other small island states are described in detail in the most recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.2 Atoll nations, including Maldives, are among the most vulnerable places on Earth because of their low elevation, small land area, 360°-exposure to waves, limited fresh water supplies, fragile ecosystems, high population densities and limited technical, financial and human resources. Sea level rise is accelerating, with dire consequences.3 As a rule of thumb, every 10 cm of sea level rise triples the frequency of coastal flooding and leads to a 10-meter retreat of unprotected coastlines.4 By the end of this century, Maldives could be experiencing one-in-100-year coastal floods annually and infrastructure within 100 meters of the coast would be extremely vulnerable to inundation and damage. Maldives consists of 26 natural atolls comprising approximately 1,190 islands, which are grouped into 20 administrative units. Although often described as a Small Island State, Maldives could also be considered a Big Ocean State, as 99 percent of its total territory is marine, while only 1 percent is land (approximately 300 square kilometres). The population of 515,000 (2022 census) is spread over 188 inhabited islands, with additional islands dedicated to tourist resorts. Malé, the capital, is one of the most densely populated cities in the world. The first resort island opened in 1972, and today tourism dominates the economy (30% of gross domestic product). The plight of Maldives illustrates the unique nature of the human rights conundrum posed by the climate emergency: the people of the Maldives have made a negligible contribution to causing the problem (0.0003 percent of global emissions) but are being subjected to a disproportionate share of the impacts. The dire warning of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change resonates with particular power in Maldives: “There is a rapidly closing window of opportunity to secure a livable and sustainable future for all … The choices and actions implemented in this decade will have impacts now and for thousands of years.”5 In some ways, the Maldives epitomizes a global economy based on the exploitation of people and nature. A burgeoning number of islands are being privatized, offering high end luxury resorts for wealthy foreigners at thousands of dollars per night, while nearly a third of the population of Maldives are migrant 2 workers, many of whom live and work in poor conditions, earning minimal wages. Foreign investors reap large profits while local communities suffer the loss of ecosystems that sustain them. Many airports are being built, even on islands with convenient speedboat access to other airports, yet air travel is the most carbon-intensive mode of transport.
During my visit to Maldives, I spent time in the capital, Malé, and traveled to a number of other islands and atolls including Hulhumalé, Thilafushi and Villingili (Kaafu Atoll), Kulhudhuffushi (Haa Dhaalu Atoll) and Hithadhoo, Maradhoo, and Feydhoo (Addu Atoll). I met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Climate Change, Environment and Energy, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade, the Special Envoy for Climate Change from the President’s Office, officials with the Ministry of Fisheries and Ocean Resources, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Land, Housing and Urban Development, the Attorney General’s Office, Waste Management Corporation (WAMCO), the National Disaster Management Authority and the National Human Rights Commission, justices of the Supreme Court, the Maldivian Red Crescent, marine biologists, youth, and members of civil society.
My role as the UN Special Rapporteur on human rights and the environment is to promote the implementation of States’ obligations relating to the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment. This fundamental human right, successfully championed by Maldives at the UN Human Rights Council (A/HRC/RES/48/13) and the UN General Assembly (A/RES/76/300), includes clean air, safe and sufficient water, healthy and sustainably produced food, non-toxic environments, healthy biodiversity and ecosystems and a safe climate. It also includes rights of access to environmental information, public participation in environmental decision-making, and access to justice with adequate remedies. My visit focused on the challenges Maldives must confront to successfully respect, protect and fulfil this right, the steps taken so far, the future actions being planned, and the barriers to progress.
International Legal Context
As other special procedures mandate holders have observed on previous visits, Maldives has ratified eight out of the nine core international human rights treaties, along with five optional protocols. I encourage Maldives to ratify the International Convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families. Maldives is also a State Party to all of the major international climate and environmental agreements, including the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Paris Agreement, the UN Convention on Biodiversity and more. I encourage the Maldives to push for a human rights-based approach in the ongoing negotiations towards a global plastics treaty, a pandemic prevention, preparedness and response treaty, and a business and human rights treaty.
National Legal Context
The Constitution of Maldives recognizes that every citizen has the right to a “healthy and ecologically balanced environment” (Article 23).6 However, from a human rights perspective, this right should be enjoyed by everyone and not limited to citizens.7 This appears to be the only constitution in the world to treat this fundamental human right in such a restrictive manner. This constitutional flaw takes on additional importance in Maldives because of the immense number of migrant workers (estimated at 150,000), some of whom are living or working in unsafe and unhealthy environments.
The main environmental law in the Maldives is the outdated Environment Protection and Preservation Act from 1993. Environmental laws and policies in Maldives are evolving, with a number of recent laws (e.g. Climate Emergency Act 2021, Waste Management Act, 2022) and bills not yet enacted (e.g. Environmental Protection and Conservation Act). Vital reforms to fossil fuel subsidies have been developed but not implemented. As noted in the Sustainable Development Goals Roadmap, Maldives needs to “Strengthen the institutional capacity for environmental management, including monitoring, assessment and enforcement capacity”.8
The Climate Emergency
As described earlier, Maldives is acutely vulnerable to the climate crisis, which is also a human rights crisis. The climate emergency is interfering with the enjoyment of a wide range of human rights, including the rights to life, health, food, water, housing, an adequate standard of living and a healthy environment, as well as cultural rights and the rights of the child. Potentially vulnerable and marginalized populations— women, children, older persons, persons with disabilities and persons living in poverty, whose adaptive capacity may be limited by lack of resources—are suffering disproportionate impacts.
According to research published in 2023, “The health risks associated with climate change in the Maldives are vast, and they include heat-related illness, water-borne diseases, food and water shortages due to flooding, mental illnesses, and an increase in the incidence of vector-borne diseases” including dengue fever.9 Researchers described these problems as “a matter of urgent concern”.10 In addition, a five percent increase in both stillbirths and pre-term births results from every one degree increase in temperature. 11
Like all States, Maldives has both adaptation and mitigation obligations pursuant to international human rights law. To its credit, Maldives is one of the first countries to establish a road map following the call from the United Nations Secretary General on Early Warnings for All. This important initiative is intended to ensure that every person on earth is protected from hazardous weather, water, or climate events through lifesaving early warning systems by the end of 2027. The Climate Emergency Act (2021) is an important law, with one of its objectives being “to provide a mechanism to protect human rights from detrimental climate changes.” At COP 28 in Dubai, the Maldives announced its intention to plant five million trees in five years. Land reclamation is a major element of Maldivian adaptation efforts and is discussed in detail below.
In its updated Nationally Determined Contribution under the Paris Agreement, Maldives committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 26 percent by 2030. Maldives also established a goal of becoming carbon neutral (or net zero carbon) by 2030 in its Nationally Determined Contribution. Although admirable in theory, these goals are unlikely to be met unless there is a rapid acceleration in the shift to renewable energy. Today’s electricity and transport systems in the Maldives are heavily dependent on fossil fuels. For example, currently less than ten percent of electricity is generated via solar photovoltaic panels.
Maldives' heavy reliance on imported fossil fuels for generating electricity and fueling transport is expensive, contributes to air pollution, undermines the nation’s international reputation as a leading voice for climate justice, and poses a massive obstacle to achieving carbon neutrality. In 2022, Maldives imported more than 800,000 tonnes of fuel.12 The three major categories of fuel imported are diesel for electricity generation, petrol for vehicles, and cooking gas.13
In recent years, fossil fuel subsidies for electricity and petrol have cost the Government hundreds of millions of dollars annually.14 The Asian Development Bank published a damning indictment of this problem, identifying barriers to the clean energy transition that include a weak policy and regulatory environment, limited development of local energy sources, absence of energy planning, inefficient energy use, and lack of long-term energy planning.15 According to the Asian Development Bank, diesel electricity generating costs range between 0.30–70 cents per kilowatt-hour (kWh), approximately three to seven times higher than recent costs of producing solar electricity in Maldives.16
The rapidly declining cost of renewable energy provides a huge opportunity for Maldives. In 2022, 63 investors expressed interest in a major solar project in Maldives, and a record low price of 9.8 US cents was received.17 In the words of the World Bank, “moving from a fossil-based to a renewable-based energy model is the best way to make electricity cheaper for everyone, reduce the fiscal risks and protect this island paradise.”18 Installed solar electricity generating capacity in Maldives jumped from 4 megawatts in 2014 to 37 megawatts in 2023, which is a good start but needs to accelerate.19 Barbados, another small island state 4 with limited land area that is a global champion for climate justice, jumped from 1 megawatt in 2014 to 70 megawatts in 2023, nearly double Maldives.20
I applaud the Government’s target to attain 33 percent of electricity production through renewable energy by 2028 and a proposed rooftop solar program, but note that these initiatives require addressing the preceding obstacles, and doing so quickly. Fossil fuel subsidies should be redirected to support renewable electricity and electric mobility. Excellent solar and storage initiatives are underway, funded largely by international financial institutions including the World Bank and Asian Development Bank. Projects include Accelerating Sustainable Private Investment in Renewable Energy (ASPIRE) and Accelerating Renewable Energy Integration and Sustainable Energy (ARISE), which are expected to install more than 53.5 megawatts of solar capacity and 50 megawatt-hours of battery storage. Preparing Outer Island for Sustainable Energy Development (POISED) is designed to install solar hybrid systems in 160 islands across Maldives.
Maldives must leave no stone unturned in the quest for climate finance. Wealthy States have moral and legal obligations to increase the availability of funding, including through far larger contributions to the recently established Loss and Damage Fund. I recommend that the Government reach out to the Just Energy Transition Partnership for financing to dramatically accelerate the switch to renewable energy. This partnership, led by the EU, Canada, and the United States, has already pledged more than $40 billion in capital to States including Indonesia, South Africa, Vietnam and Senegal.21 To date it does not appear that any small island states have been beneficiaries. Maldives has a compelling case to be the first. Other attractive options are debt for renewables or debt for climate swaps, where creditors reduce debt obligations in exchange for commitments to invest in specified climate actions.22
I was impressed by the electric transport system on Villingili, involving buses, electric motorcycles and electric bicycles. Electric buses operated by the Maldives Transport and Contracting Company employ solar powered charging stations, contributing to reduced greenhouse gas emissions, cleaner air, less noise and a greener, cleaner, healthier island. This concept should be expanded to other islands, including Malé and Ras Malé, through subsidies for electric bikes, motorbikes and vehicles. 23
Land Reclamation
The most controversial environment and human rights related topic in Maldives involves land reclamation. This process of dredging sand to expand existing islands or create new islands has accelerated in recent years, with the introduction of the Safe Island development programme after the devastating 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. Associated activities, including channel blasting, harbor developments, and construction of jetties and breakwaters, also pose significant threats to the marine and coastal environment. Nearly twothirds of inhabited islands in Maldives have undergone substantial changes through land reclamation since 2006.24 The Government’s rationales include social, economic and environmental arguments. Additional land is needed for housing, infrastructure and industry. Land reclamation is also depicted as a means of adapting to climate change, particularly to the threat of rising sea levels. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports that land reclamation is potentially effective in reducing the risks from sea level rise.25
Opponents of land reclamation assert that the process is damaging, and in some cases, destroying coral reefs and lagoons, ecosystems that are not only environmentally sensitive and valuable but also the basis of local peoples’ livelihoods and cultures. They also argue that the main beneficiaries are often foreign businesses and the economic and political elite of the Maldives. Although individual environmental impact assessments are conducted for land reclamation projects, there does not appear to be an assessment of the cumulative risk to biodiversity, the health of reef ecosystems, local livelihoods and human rights across the Maldives despite the escalating pace and magnitude of development.
There is extensive scientific evidence to support the position that land reclamation causes significant environmental damage.26 In the words of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, “Land reclamation and coastal protection structures negatively impact coastal and marine ecosystems, including reefs and mangroves, which compromise the protection services that they deliver to island communities through wave energy attenuation and sediment supply and may impact the long-term sustainable adaptive planning of islands. In addition, these construction activities disrupt natural coastal processes, thereby causing coastal erosion, which in turn increases the risk of flooding”.27 The IPCC concluded that reclamation causes “widespread ecosystem destruction”.28
The Maldives appears to be stuck between a rock and a hard place. It is untenable to do nothing to protect these extraordinarily vulnerable islands from the existential threat of rising sea levels. Yet reclamation projects are problematic because they damage nature’s defense mechanisms, jeopardize marine biodiversity, and sabotage the ecosystems that attract millions of tourists annually.
Land reclamation projects for climate adaptation should be distinguished from projects done for luxury tourism. If land reclamation for the former could be done in a genuinely sustainable manner, with the full participation and support of local communities, it could be a valuable means of building resilience and adapting to the inevitable impacts of the climate emergency. This is true not only for Maldives and other atoll nations, but for many small island states and vulnerable, low lying coastal communities.
Water
Fulfilling the right to safe and sufficient water has been a major challenge for Maldives. As of 2019, 78 percent of the population had access to piped water in their homes, while 86 percent had access to sewage networks.29 Groundwater is found on some islands, but is limited in quantity and often contaminated by human waste and saltwater intrusion. Some households collect rainwater, but maintenance of the systems is uneven (e.g. cleaning roofs, cleaning tanks), and made more difficult by erratic and unpredictable precipitation patterns attributed to the climate crisis. Some islands also have communal water tanks. During the dry season, the Government delivers water by tanker to approximately 80 islands. However, this is expensive, polluting (due to fuel use), and can be delayed or canceled by bad weather and stormy seas, leaving people without an adequate water supply. This approach should be replaced by more sustainable solutions, including increased attention to protecting and recharging groundwater.
Water in Maldives is increasingly provided by desalination plants. If powered by renewable energy, this is a reasonably sustainable solution. A recent $25 million project carried out by the Government with support from the UN Development Programme and the Green Climate Fund improved access to safe drinking water for 20,000 people on 29 islands, improved resilience of groundwater quality for 49 islands, supported development of the Water and Sewerage Act, and will save millions of dollars in the future by reducing costs of delivering water during dry seasons. A recent collaboration between China and Maldives built five desalination plants powered by solar and wind systems for a total cost of $13 million. 30 Each plant has the capacity to produce 200,000 liters of water daily.
Non-toxic environments where people can live, work, learn and play
Waste management Maldives has serious waste management problems, including open burning, dumping of waste, and microplastic contamination. Litter is ubiquitous, cluttering streets, beaches, the ocean, and the roots of trees. The rare public trash receptacles are overflowing with garbage. With a growing population, increasing wealth, and rapidly rising numbers of tourists, garbage production has skyrocketed. The volume of waste generated per capita has jumped roughly 60% in recent years. 31
Hundreds of tonnes of trash from the Greater Malé region and tourism islands are transported to an immense dump on Thilafushi Island. Burning of waste on Thilafushi is no longer permitted but continues on more 6 remote islands, producing carcinogenic smoke and depositing toxic substances in soil and water, threatening both human and ecosystem health.32 According to scientists, “these findings highlight the need for immediate changes in waste management policies in the Archipelago, in order to reduce the release of Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) in the fragile local environment.”33
The first waste management law was enacted in 2022 and actions are underway to address the problem, including planned separation of waste streams, closed containers for waste transfer between islands, a 13 megawatt waste to energy incinerator, and a biodigester for organic waste. A last-minute amendment to the Waste Management Act allows waste to be imported. Given the garbage challenges facing Maldives, this provision should be repealed.34
Waste management centres have been established on 79 islands and are promised for 100 more, but are generally not fenced, not coordinated, and are not separating waste streams (recyclable, compostable, residue). Many sewage and waste water systems in the Maldives are rudimentary, consisting of simple collection systems with little treatment. Raw sewage effluent and solids are discharged through pipes into the ocean, threatening lagoons, beaches and reefs. 35
Researchers found “one of the highest densities of microplastics found anywhere on the planet” in coastal waters adjacent to Maldivian islands.36 Maldives, somewhat surprisingly, ranks among the world’s worst plastic polluters on a per capita basis.37 Plastic water bottles and other forms of plastic trash are visible on streets, beaches and floating in the sea because of the inadequate solid waste management system, discharges of sewage and wastewater, the lack of environmentally responsible behaviour, and transport by currents from neighbouring countries in the Indian Ocean. Plastic pollution is not only ugly but threatens human health, wildlife and ecosystems.
Maldives recently introduced a ban on certain types of single use plastics.38 The production, import and use of the following single-use plastic items were banned: drinking straws, plates, cutlery and stirrers, plastic shopping bags below 30 × 30 cm, styrofoam food containers, drinking cups of less than 250 mL, cotton buds with plastic stems and shampoo, soap, conditioner and lotion bottles that are less than 50 mL. This is a good initiative, but must be implemented and enforced to be effective.
It should be noted that waste incineration can cause additional problems including toxic air pollution and toxic residue. Strong environmental standards based on the best available science need to be established before the Thilafushi incinerator begin to operate. Smaller incinerators on other islands should also be governed by strong environmental standards and must be sited away from local communities and ecologically sensitive areas.
A bright spot in waste management is the “Green Climate Smart Hospital Policy and Strategy” that is addressing medical waste. Also important is a project supported by the Global Environment Facility that achieved the safeguarding of up to 30 tonnes of PCB- contaminated transformers and switchgears in a temporary storage and progressed with arrangements for packaging, shipment, and final disposal of the PCB waste at a certified destruction facility abroad.
The Maldives is encouraged to develop extended producer responsibility programs to shift the operational and financial burden of waste management to the businesses responsible for creating and importing the materials that become waste.39 For example, one of the most commonly littered items are drink containers. These should be subject to an industry financed and operated deposit/refund system. Maldives needs to invest in public education on proper waste management (e.g. ending open burning, dealing with food waste, segregating waste) and strictly enforce rules against littering. The recent crackdown on littering in Malé prior to Ramadan was an encouraging initiative, with 100 people fined.40
Air pollution
Despite the remoteness of the Maldives and the small population, air pollution is a significant health concern. Annual average levels of fine particulate (PM2.5) in Malé are four times higher (19 μg/m3) than the level recommended by the World Health Organization (5 μg/m3). In other parts of Maldives, levels are lower than in Malé but still exceed WHO levels.41 At certain times of the year, half of the air pollution is due to transboundary transport of air pollution. It is estimated that 160 premature deaths per year in Maldives are caused by air pollution.42
Maldives has a National Action Plan on Air Pollutants(2019). Recognizing the link between climate change and air pollution, most of the measures in the Action Plan repeat measures pledged in the Nationally Determined Contribution to the Paris Agreement, such as expanding solar electricity generation, improving the energy efficiency of air conditioners and refrigerators, and reducing the open burning of waste. If implemented, these actions would reduce greenhouse gas emissions 26 percent and fine particulate emissions 35 percent. Additional actions, including strengthening and enforcing emission standards for road vehicles and the marine fleet, would result in a 60 percent reduction in direct PM2.5 emissions, 40 percent reduction in black carbon emissions, and 27 percent reduction in nitrogen oxide emissions by 2030 compared to a business as usual scenario. However, implementation is the primary challenge.
Toxic chemicals
A growing number of States have banned hazardous pesticides because of their dangers to human and ecosystem health. However, pesticide imports in Maldives have risen sharply in recent years. More than 14 types of potentially carcinogenic pesticides were imported in 2021. 43
Other concerns include chemicals used in the boat building and repair sector (e.g. formaldehyde, a known human carcinogen, and styrene, a probable human carcinogen) and asbestos, a known carcinogen imported in large volumes in asbestos-cement sheets (used in construction).44 The World Health Organization urges the States to stop using all products containing asbestos because of the severe risks of cancer and other diseases.45
Recommended actions including enacting a Hazardous Substances law, stopping the import and use of all asbestos products, and eliminating reliance on cancer causing pesticides. The government should also: strengthen occupational health and safety standards in key economic sectors, such as boat building, construction, and agriculture; 46 increase awareness and understanding about the importance of sound chemical management; and boost capacity for testing, monitoring and enforcement of rules.
Biodiversity
The Maldives archipelago’s coral reefs, mangrove forests, seagrass meadows, sandy lagoons and other marine ecosystems are among the most abundant and diverse anywhere in the world. In particular, the size, complexity, and rich diversity of the Maldives’ coral reef ecosystem—including 1,200 species of fish— make it globally significant. Of the 100+ endangered species in Maldives, most are corals, along with some turtles, sharks, rays and birds.47
Scientists are very concerned about the declining health of coral reefs in Maldives, especially in the more heavily developed central atolls.48 Corals are under pressure from the combination of climate change (ocean heating and acidification) and localized impacts (land reclamation, pollution, tourism). Maldives lost 75% of its corals in the devastating 2016 bleaching event. Reductions in coral abundance and diversity lead to declines in fish and invertebrate populations, harming local communities that depend on these species and undermining the long-term health of the reefs themselves.
To take just one example, the 2022 Environmental Impact Assessment for the Addu Land Reclamation Project estimated that 20.88 hectares of coral reef would be lost, representing a cost of $US 340.6 million 8 to $US 851.5 million (up to ten times the budgeted cost of the reclamation project).49 The loss of 98 hectares of seagrass meadows in the same EIA had an estimated cost of $US 3.7 million.50
Mangroves provide resources for local communities are important as nurseries for reef fish species, bird habitat and a variety of vital ecosystem services. Destruction and reclamation of mangroves and coastal areas for the development of infrastructure deprives women who are dependent on these natural resources for their livelihoods, leading to increased financial dependability and vulnerability in the households. This is precisely what happened when an extensive area of mangroves was destroyed to build the Kulhudhuffushi airport.51 The economic, social, and cultural rights and the right to a healthy environment of hundreds of women reliant on handicrafts were violated. Coastal vegetation provides many benefits and should be protected whenever possible.
Percentages of protected areas in Maldives are well below the international commitment of all States to protect 30 percent of land and marine territory by 2030, under the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. Data available indicate that in Maldives, 2.3 percent of terrestrial area is protected and 0.7 percent of the marine area, well below other small island nations (e.g. Seychelles with 62 percent and 33 percent respectively).52 Rights-based conservation requires inclusive involvement of local communities.
Protected areas appear to lack adequate government support. For example, responsibility for the Addu Atoll UNESCO Biosphere Reserve was transferred from the Ministry of Environment to a local city council. Unlike the Baa Atoll Biosphere Reserve, the Addu Atoll Biosphere Reserve does not receive any financial support from the central government. The Addu Atoll Biosphere Reserve is a global treasure that deserves the full support of the government of Maldives, including sufficient financial and human resources to develop and implement a management plan to attract more visitors and ensure its sustainability.
A recent regulatory change allows dredging for land reclamation in marine protected areas. This type of regression is not consistent with the government’s obligation to respect the right to a healthy environment.
Food
Fishing remains an important part of the economy of the Maldives and a major source of nutrients. The key species are skipjack and yellowfin tuna, which are caught using sustainable fishing gear including pole and line and hand lines, respectively. Tuna represent 98 percent of fisheries in Maldives, and roughly half the catch is exported. Since 2005 the volume of tuna catch has been declining due to overfishing by other nations and oceanic changes (e.g. increased ocean surface temperatures) linked to the climate emergency.
It is important to emphasize the impressively sustainable practices of the Maldivian tuna fishery, which include low levels of bycatch, relatively low levels of fuel consumption, and catch levels below the country’s quotas established by the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission.53 It is unjust that European Union fishing fleets catch more skipjack and yellowfin tuna in the Indian Ocean than any State in the region (including Maldives).54
A profoundly troubling possibility is that the foregoing factors could completely eliminate the tuna fishery that employs more than 10,000 people and is at the heart of the healthy diet enjoyed by many Maldivians (with per capita consumption of almost 100 kilograms per year).55 The loss of the tuna fishery would be devastating for people’s health and their right to healthy and sustainably produced food, as well as causing social, cultural and economic losses.
Procedural elements of the right to a healthy environment
In order to fully enjoy their right to a healthy environment, people must have access to information, the ability to participate in decision making, and access to justice with effective remedies when their rights are being threatened or violated. Some sources raised concerns about delays in gaining timely access to information, extra difficulties getting information about state-owned enterprises, and the use of “national security” as an excuse for denying access to information. Others criticized public participation opportunities as limited, directed towards favourable stakeholders only (such as local councils), and treated as “box-checking exercises.” In the words of one individual, there is a “communication gap” between the government and the people.
One of the key vehicles for implementing the procedural elements of the right to a healthy environment and achieving sustainable development is the environmental impact assessment (EIA) process. Disaster risk reduction, such as adequate drainage, should be consistently integrated in EIAs for land reclamation projects, but this is apparently not the case, or sometimes recommendations are not implemented. Numerous harbour, airport, and other land reclamation projects have exacerbated flooding risks, as illustrated by the rise in flooding in Kulhudhuffushi City after land reclamation and road construction for an airport destroyed a large area of mangroves. 56
Other critiques directed at the EIA process include lack of new information (copy/paste from previous EIA studies), studies done in a rush, resulting in a lack of comprehensive seasonal data, projects are politically pre-approved, work on projects begins prior to completion of the EIA process, and a failure to implement EIA recommendations. EIA should include health and human rights considerations, including the rights of the child and the right to a healthy environment. The Environmental Protection Agency needs additional resources in order to monitor and enforce mitigation and restoration recommendations made in EIA reports. These recommendations should be legally binding conditions for the granting of permits.
There are a growing number of court challenges to government decisions that are harming or have the potential to harm the right to a healthy environment in Maldives. Some disturbing examples were given about local magistrates being influenced by pro-development public pressure to dismiss cases on spurious grounds, and environmental advocates being harassed for bringing these important public interest lawsuits. It is essential to the integrity of the judicial system for magistrates and judges be free from all external influences. One important case involving land reclamation for port development at Gulhifalhu is currently before the Supreme Court, which overturned an interim injunction granted by the High Court to stop dredging.57
Recommendations include training magistrates and judges about human rights and the environment (through programs offered by the UN Environment Programme), adopting procedural rules to expedite environmental cases before irreparable damage is done (as in the Philippines58), and encouraging lawyers to represent environmental clients (potentially as a pro bono element of their practice).
Several disturbing accounts were shared of harassment and intimidation, including death threats, against environmental human rights defenders. This is completely unacceptable. The government should have zero tolerance for this kind of behaviour and should celebrate the work of advocates who are promoting sustainable development and seeking environmental justice. Those responsible for threats and harassment should be investigated and, where appropriate, prosecuted. It is a positive development that human rights complaints (related to civil and political rights) can be brought to the Human Rights Commission and the Civil Rights Office of the Attorney General. Efforts to have the Human Rights Commission comply with the Paris Principles established by the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions should continue.
Environmental education is a right for every child and should be woven throughout the entire curriculum in Maldives, from pre-school through university. The Green Schools pilot project in seven schools is a promising initiative in this regard.
Urban planning
Access to green space is very important for both physical and mental health, especially for children. There is much more green space in Phase I of Hulhumalé than in Malé, but green space originally planned for Phase II has been replaced by additional housing. This unfortunate regression should be reconsidered.
Traffic congestion in Malé is causing air pollution and accidents. I recommend investing in safer infrastructure for pedestrians and cyclists, as well as improving public transit services. Some streets should be closed to private vehicles, beginning on a trial basis, a strategy that has enjoyed great success in many cities. Encouraging developments from the perspective of sustainable development planning include a recently completed Urban Development Policy as well as work on a National Planning bill, a 20-year Long-term Development Plan, and an Urban Planning and Development bill.
Gender Equality
Evidence demonstrates that having more women in government leads to improved environmental protection and performance.59 Women’s participation in public institutions in Maldives remains limited. For example, their representation in decision-making bodies such as the Parliament, and executive positions remains disproportionately low. Following this week’s election, women held only three seats in the People’s Majlis, (the Maldivian Parliament), and only 3 out of 22 ministers are women. A positive step forward was the amendment of the Decentralization Act (2019), introducing a quota of 33 percent for the representation of women in local councils. Similar quotas for all public institutions, including Parliament, are encouraged. In 2022, the UN Working Group on discrimination against women and girls recommended increasing women’s participation and decision-making related to climate action and environmental protection.60
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, research from the Maldives suggests that women and men do not possess equal capacities to use mobility as a strategy to adapt to climate change. 61 Women are less able to employ migration as an adaptation strategy due to gender norms, social expectations, economic structures, religious doctrines, and cultural practices.
Conclusion
In conclusion, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to the Government of Maldives for the invitation to undertake this visit and for its excellent cooperation before and during the visit. Maldives deserves credit for being a vocal champion for the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment at the United Nations, both in Geneva at the Human Rights Council and in New York at the General Assembly. I would also like to express my genuine gratitude to the UN Country team for their valuable support and assistance. I appreciate the remarkable efforts being made with very limited resources by civil society organizations in Maldives working on pollution, plastic waste, tree planting, environmental education, biodiversity conservation and climate change. The people doing this work, many of whom are volunteers, are heroes for human rights and the planet.
This end of mission statement highlights my preliminary findings from the ten-day visit. It will be followed by a full report with a more detailed and comprehensive analysis, including extensive recommendations, which will be presented at the 58th session of the Human Rights Council in March 2025.
I would like to close on an optimistic note. Scientists have conducted remarkable experiments in the Maldives to revive damaged coral reefs by breeding heat tolerant coral larvae and using recordings of fish noises to attract those larvae to damaged reefs.62 This research illustrates the remarkable resilience of nature. However, this technique will only work if every country in the world, including Maldives, tackles the climate emergency with increased urgency. As the IPCC has concluded, “Every bit of warming matters, every year matters, every choice matters.”63
Endnotes
1 https://www.unicef.org/rosa/blog/were-being-swallowed-ocean-and-running-out-freshwater
2 Mycoo, M., M. Wairiu, D. Campbell, V. Duvat, Y. Golbuu, S. Maharaj, J. Nalau, P. Nunn, J. Pinnegar, and O. Warrick, 2022: Small Islands. In: Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [H.-O. Pörtner, D.C. Roberts, M. Tignor, E.S. Poloczanska, K. Mintenbeck, A. Alegría, M. Craig, S. Langsdorf, S. Löschke, V. Möller, A. Okem, B. Rama (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK and New York, NY, USA, pp. 2043–2121, doi:10.1017/9781009325844.017.
3 https://yaleclimateconnections.org/2023/07/how-fast-are-the-seas-rising/
4 See https://nccarf.edu.au/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Rules-of-thumb-for-man… and https://theconversation.com/climate-explained-why-coastal-floods-are-be…;
5 https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/syr/resources/spm-headline-statements/&n…;
6 23. Economic and social rights Every citizen the following rights pursuant to this Constitution, and the State undertakes to achieve the progressive realisation of these rights by reasonable measures within its ability and resources:
7 It should also be noted that pursuant to the Constitution of Maldives, “a non-Muslim may not become a citizen of the Maldives” (Article 9(4)).
8 Government of Maldives and United Nations, 2022, Maldives SDG Roadmap, https://maldives.un.org/sites/default/files/2023-05/Maldives%20SDG%20Ro…;
9 Eya LI, Adam IM, Ruvaisha A, Adam IM. Readiness of the Maldivian Health System to Climate Change. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2023 Mar;35(2-3):230-231. doi:
10.1177/10105395231158683. Epub 2023 Feb 23. PMID: 36824019. 10 Ibid.
11 Chersich MF, Pham MD, Areal A, Haghighi MM, Manyuchi A, Swift CP, Wernecke B, Robinson M, Hetem R, Boeckmann M, Hajat S; Climate Change and Heat-Health Study Group. Associations between high temperatures in pregnancy and risk of preterm birth, low birth weight, and stillbirths: systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ. 2020 Nov 4;371:m3811. doi: 10.1136/bmj.m3811.
12 Maldives Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure, 2023. Maldives Second Voluntary National Review on the Implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals Maldives. https://hlpf.un.org/sites/default/files/vnrs/2023/VNR%20Maldives%202023…;
13 https://mfr.mv/industry/maldives-set-to-spend-more-on-fuel-in-2022&nbsp;
14 https://edition.mv/features/29574
15 Asian Development Bank, 2020, Energy Sector Assessment: Summary. https://www.adb.org/projects/documents/mld-46122-005-rrp&nbsp;
16 Asian Development Bank, 2020, Energy Sector Assessment: Summary. https://www.adb.org/projects/documents/mld-46122-005-rrp&nbsp;
17 https://blogs.worldbank.org/en/endpovertyinsouthasia/why-maldives-5-mw-…;
18 Ibid.
19 International Renewable Energy Agency. 2024. Renewable Energy Capacity Statistics, 2024, p. 21. https://www.irena.org/Publications/2024/Mar/Renewable-capacity-statisti…;
20 Ibid.
21 https://dgap.org/en/research/glossary/climate-foreign-policy/just-energ…;
22 See https://lki.lk/publication/debt-for-renewables-swaps-how-to-address-cli…vulnerabilities-in-sri-lanka/ and https://theconversation.com/how-debt-for-climate-swaps-can-help-solve-l…environmental-challenges-at-the-same-time-191161
23 https://atolltimes.mv/post/news/6925
24 Duvat, V.K.E., Magnan, A.K. Rapid human-driven undermining of atoll island capacity to adjust to ocean climate-related pressures. Sci Rep 9, 15129 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-51468-3
25 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Special Report on Oceans and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate: Summary for Policymakers, 2019, p. 33. See also 4.4.2.4.5
26 Duvat, V.K.E., Magnan, A.K. Rapid human-driven undermining of atoll island capacity to adjust to ocean climate-related pressures. Sci Rep 9, 15129 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-51468-3 See also https://www.maldivescoral.org/projects 12
27 Mycoo, M., M. Wairiu, D. Campbell, V. Duvat, Y. Golbuu, S. Maharaj, J. Nalau, P. Nunn, J. Pinnegar, and O. Warrick, 2022: Small Islands. In: Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [H.-O. Pörtner, D.C. Roberts, M. Tignor, E.S. Poloczanska, K. Mintenbeck, A. Alegría, M. Craig, S. Langsdorf, S. Löschke, V. Möller, A. Okem, B. Rama (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK and New York, NY, USA, pp. 2043–2121, doi:10.1017/9781009325844.017.
28 Ibid.
29 Maldives Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure, 2023. Maldives Second Voluntary National Review on the Implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals Maldives. https://hlpf.un.org/sites/default/files/vnrs/2023/VNR%20Maldives%202023…;
30 https://edition.mv/news/31382
31 Toby B. Patti, Emily K. Fobert, Simon E. Reeves, Karen Burke da Silva, 2020. Spatial distribution of microplastics around an inhabited coral island in the Maldives, Indian Ocean, Science of The Total Environment, 748: 141263, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141263.&nbsp;
32 Colombo A, Bettinetti R, Strona G, Cambria F, Fanelli R, Zubair Z, Galli P. Maldives: an archipelago that burns. A first survey of PCDD/Fs and DL-PCBs from human activities. Sci Total Environ. 2014 Nov 1;497-498:499-507. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.08.013. Epub 2014 Aug 23. PMID: 25151268.
33 Colombo A, Bettinetti R, Strona G, Cambria F, Fanelli R, Zubair Z, Galli P. Maldives: an archipelago that burns. A first survey of PCDD/Fs and DL-PCBs from human activities. Sci Total Environ. 2014 Nov 1;497-498:499-507. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.08.013.
34 Walker TR. The Maldives should not become the world's garbage dump by importing plastic waste. Mar Pollut Bull. 2023 Apr;189:114749. doi: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2023.114749. Epub 2023 Feb 22. See also https://www.hrw.org/news/2022/12/19/dont-turn-maldives-worlds-garbagedump#:~:text=Section%2044%20of%20the%20law,of%20waste%20into%20the%20country.
35 B. Cowburn, C. Moritz, C. Birrell, G. Grimsditch, A. Abdulla. Can luxury and environmental sustainability coexist? Assessing the environmental impact of resort tourism on coral reefs in the Maldives. Ocean Coastal Management, 158 (2018), pp. 120-127.
36 Patti, T. B., Fobert, E. K., Reeves, S. E., & Burke da Silva, K. (2020). Spatial distribution of microplastics around an inhabited coral island in the Maldives, Indian Ocean. Science of The Total Environment, 748, Article 141263. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141263
37 Barnes SJ. Understanding plastics pollution: The role of economic development and technological research. Environ Pollut. 2019 Jun;249:812-821. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2019.03.108. Epub 2019 Mar 29.
38 https://zerowastemaldives.com/the-maldives-bans-the-imports-of-certain-… 39 See British Columbia, Extended Producer Responsibility Five-Year Action Plan 2021–2026; and British Columbia, Environmental Management Act, Recycling Regulation No. 449/2004.
40 https://edition.mv/news/32279
41 Budhavant K, Andersson A, Bosch C, Kruså M, Murthaza A, Zahid, Gustafsson Ö. Apportioned contributions of PM2.5 fine aerosol particles over the Maldives (northern Indian Ocean) from local sources vs long-range transport. Sci Total Environ. 2015 Dec 1;536:72-78. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.07.059. Epub 2015 Jul 18. PMID: 26196071.
42 World Health Organization, 2023, Monitoring progress on universal health coverage and the health-related Sustainable Development Goals in the WHO South-East Asia Region – 2023 update, p. 61, https://iris.who.int/bitstream/handle/10665/373775/9789290210917-eng.pd…;
43 Ministry of Environment Climate Change and Technology. 2022. Baseline Assessment on National Use of Chemicals and Associated Risks.
44 Ministry of Environment Climate Change and Technology. 2022. Baseline Assessment on National Use of Chemicals and Associated Risks.
45 World Health Organization, 2014, Elimination of asbestos related diseases, https://iris.who.int/bitstream/handle/10665/340579/WHO-FWC-PHE-EPE-14.01-eng.pdf?sequence=1
46 The proposed occupational health and safety bill should be enacted and must apply equally to all workers, both resident and migrant.
47 Maldives Red List, https://www.environment.gov.mv/v2/en/maldives-red-list See also http://www.earthsendangered.com/search-regions3.asp
48 Zampa G, Azzola A, Bianchi CN, Morri C, Oprandi A, Montefalcone M. Patterns of change in coral reef communities of a remote Maldivian atoll revisited after eleven years. PeerJ. 2023 Oct 24;11:e16071. doi: 10.7717/peerj.16071. PMID: 38077433; PMCID: PMC10710173. 13 Pancrazi et al. (2020) Pancrazi I, Ahmed H, Cerrano C, Montefalcone M. Synergic effect of global thermal anomalies and local dredging activities on coral reefs of the Maldives. Marine Pollution Bulletin. 2020;160:111585. doi: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2020.111585.
49 Additional Information - EIA for the Proposed Reclamation Project at Addu City, September 2022.
50 Ibid.
51 https://www.hrw.org/report/2023/10/18/we-still-havent-recovered/local-c…projects-maldives
52 See https://www.protectedplanet.net/country/MDV and https://www.protectedplanet.net/country/SYC
53 https://ipnlf.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/rates-of-fuel-consumption-in-the-maldives-pole-and-line-tunafishery-lr.pdf
54 H. Sinan et al., Subsidies and allocation: A legacy of distortion and intergenerational loss, Front. Hum. Dyn. 4:1044321. doi: 10.3389/fhumd.2022.1044321
55 Nadhiya A, Khandaker MU, Mahmud S, Abdullah WH. The presence of toxic heavy metals in tuna fishes from Laccadive sea and concomitant health risk. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2023 Nov 2;199(18):2224-2228. doi: 10.1093/rpd/ncad213. PMID: 37934996.
56 Human Rights Watch, 2023. We Still haven’t Recovered: Local Communities Harmed by Reclamation projects in the Maldives. https://www.hrw.org/report/2023/10/18/we-still-havent-recovered/local-c…reclamation-projects-maldives#_ftn42 See also https://raajje.mv/66950#:~:text=Kulhudhuffushi%20island%20council%20has… %20flood%20damage.
57 Humaida Abdul Ghafoor v. Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure and Ministry of Environment, Climate Change and Technology, Case 2023/HC-A/267, 14 February 2024, High Court of Maldives. https://miveshi.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Unofficial-Translation-H…- Feb-2024.pdf
58 https://lawphil.net/courts/supreme/am/am_09-6-8-sc_2010.html&nbsp;
59 Report of the Special Rapporteur on the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment, David Boyd, 2023, A/HRC/52/33
60 A/HRC/53/39/Add.2
61 Mycoo, M., M. Wairiu, D. Campbell, V. Duvat, Y. Golbuu, S. Maharaj, J. Nalau, P. Nunn, J. Pinnegar, and O. Warrick, 2022: Small Islands. In: Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [H.-O. Pörtner, D.C. Roberts, M. Tignor, E.S. Poloczanska, K. Mintenbeck, A. Alegría, M. Craig, S. Langsdorf, S. Löschke, V. Möller, A. Okem, B. Rama (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK and New York, NY, USA, pp. 2043–2121, doi:10.1017/9781009325844.017.
62 https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2024/apr/20/scientists-experiment-is-beacon-of-hope-for-coral-reefson-brink-of-global-collapse
63 IPCC, Global Warming of 1.5°C, Foreword at (vi).
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/267078-un-expert-maldives-stuck-between-rock-and-hard-place-climate-change-issue




Date: 21 March 2024
Title: Maldives: UN expert encourages efforts to promote inclusive  governance and development
Content: 21 March 2024
MALE (21 March 2024) – A UN expert today encouraged the Maldivian Government to strengthen efforts to foster inclusive governance and development in the country.
During a 10-day visit to the Maldives, Livingstone Sewanyana, UN Independent expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable international order examined core aspects related to his mandate, including international cooperation in the areas of peace and security, sustainable development, climate change and social protection.
He also examined the situation of migrant workers, public participation of women, youth and other marginalised groups in decision-making processes, and the protection of civic space.
Sewanyana commended the adoption of a social protection scheme and encouraged the adoption of further policies and measures to strengthen social welfare and reduce poverty, with particular attention to segments of society in situations of risk and vulnerability, including women, youth and migrant workers.
“Upholding the rights and dignity of migrant workers is a fundamental component of inclusive governance,” the expert said. “I strongly recommend that the Government enhances efforts to strengthen the regulatory framework for protecting their rights.”
Sewanyana welcomed measures towards social infrastructure investment and diversification of the economy.
He also reiterated the need to safeguard civic space which is the cornerstone of democracy and good governance. “Moving forward, protecting and expanding civic freedoms will be crucial to foster an environment where diverse perspectives can flourish,” the expert said.
Sewanyana also acknowledged the Government’s efforts to formulate national policies and its international engagement and cooperation to combat climate change and its effects.
During his visit, the expert met with Government officials, members of Parliament, representatives of civil society organisations and academics. Sewanyana will present a report on his visit, including key recommendations, to the Human Rights Council in September 2024.
END
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/265401-maldives-un-expert-encourages-efforts-promote-inclusive-governance-and-development




Date: 08 June 2023
Title: From Paper to Practice - Reviewing Gender-Based Violence Legislations in the Maldives
Content: 08 June 2023
In an era where striving to eradicate gender-based violence is not just a necessity, but an urgency, a poignant question lingers - are our laws just words on paper, or are they serving their purpose in protecting and empowering the vulnerable?
In a bid to bring clarity and coherence to the national legislations, UNFPA Maldives took a significant step in 2022, by providing support to undertake a thematic analysis of Gender-Based Violence (GBV) related legislations in the Maldives, in order to identify repetitions, overlaps, contradictions and measure their compliance with human rights and gender equality.
On May 30th 2023, UNFPA Maldives convened a workshop to disseminate the findings of this analysis, spearheaded by Ms. Chantelle McCabe, an international human rights lawyer and gender expert to bring about this crucial dialogue among key stakeholders. Representatives from across sectors, including Uza Aisha Shujune Muhammad, Dr. Azmiralda Zahir from the Supreme Court, Hon. Uz. Hussein Shameem from the Prosecutor General’s Office, representatives from the United Nations and the Minister of Gender, Family Support and Services, Hon. Aishath Mohamed Didi amongst other esteemed participants, who sparked the conversation, underscoring the necessity of aligning written laws with their actual execution.
“We’re taking the cases up to courts, but other things within the law, for example services for the victims of violence, require more support,” said the Minister. There was a shared sentiment that the spirit of law isn't just about the prosecution, but also about providing support to the victims, ensuring they are not jeopardized when giving evidence, and empowering them through a system that truly serves their interests.
The Prosecutor General shed light on the potential opportunities arising from the Supreme Court’s call for a review of all laws. However, he also emphasized the conflicts within the penal code sections that could be counterproductive to a harmonized legal framework. In his words, “Some of the issues we mentioned among a few of these sections; none of them were used due to a conflict, which is something that needs to be resolved”.
One of the key themes that emerged was the need for transparency, coherence and consistency in the interpretation and application of laws. With numerous references to provisions that seem contradictory or are interpreted differently across sectors, the need for aligning laws and updating the provisions to reflect the current realities became a pressing concern. In this context, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Maldives, Catherine Haswell proposed a broader consultation involving diverse stakeholders and effective methodologies, borrowed from other examples from countries, to bring some coherence to the provisions while minimizing risk for women and children.
Additionally, a potent insight came from the Minister, who noted that “One of the weaknesses of our system is that a lot of things are people centered; depending on who is in a particular position of power during a particular time in order for things to happen”. Echoing this sentiment, Head of Office of UNFPA Maldives, Shadiya Ibrahim pointed out that “The wrong people are centered, it should be the survivors who are at the center”. This drove home the point that while laws are written down, their effective implementation should not depend on individual whims, but on a systematic, comprehensive and inclusive approach.
The meeting concluded on a hopeful note, looking towards future collaborations to address the issues raised, with a shared commitment to move from merely discussing laws to pushing the agenda for their effective implementation.
Moving forward, the insights garnered from this workshop will serve as stepping stones towards crafting an action plan that bridges the gap between legislation and its application. It’s time to turn our discussions into actions, our laws into lived realities, and our hopes into tangible outcomes.
Reference: https://maldives.unfpa.org/en/gbvlawreview&nbsp;
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/236362-paper-practice-reviewing-gender-based-violence-legislations-maldives




Date: 29 May 2023
Title: Training Workshop to Enhance the Use of Administrative Data for Official Statistics Production
Content: 29 May 2023
[29 May 2023, Male’] - The importance of administrative data to produce official statistics cannot be overstated for developmental monitoring and reporting. Recognizing the underutilization of this valuable resource in many countries, Maldives Bureau of Statistics in partnership and the UN Statistics Division (UNSD) of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA), collaboratively organized a comprehensive training workshop from 29 May to 1 June 2023 aimed at strengthening the capacity of National Statistical Systems (NSS) to leverage administrative data sources effectively.
Under the auspices of the Collaborative on Administrative Data, the UNSD, with funding support from the UN DESA Development Account 13, has developed a training program that targets both administrative data holders and official statisticians. The workshop aims to foster a common understanding of the value of data sharing and collaboration between these stakeholders, paving the way for improved official statistics and informed decision-making.
The training workshop, titled "Increasing the Use of Administrative Data Sources for Official Statistics Production," covered a range of essential topics, including:
The objectives of the workshop are to increase capacity and foster a joint understanding among participants which include the Maldives Bureau of Statistics (MBS) and various line ministries responsible for administrative data sources, regarding the optimal use of administrative data sources for official statistics production. It is envisaged that with this training the participants will gain a better understanding of the subject matter and possess a toolkit to facilitate effective collaboration between administrative data holders and official statisticians.
In the context of the Maldives, the workshop focused on migration and labor statistics, addressing key areas that require accurate and detailed data. Through interactive sessions and case studies, participants gained practical insights into harnessing administrative data to strengthen statistical outputs in the country including those related to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UN in Maldives hopes that this initiative will address the key challenges of data gaps and capacity for analysis that are being identified in the 2024 Voluntary National Review of the SDGs and bring to the forefront the initiatives needed by the Maldives to reinvigorate the country’s commitment to enhance the monitoring of the SDGs in the lead up to the SDG Summit.

For media inquiries or further information, please contact:
Ms. Vibeke Oestreich Nielsen
Interregional Advisor on Statistical Training and Capacity Building Development Data and Outreach Branch
United Nations Statistics Division
Email: vibeke.nielsen@un.org

Aminath Mushfiqa Ibrahim
Director, HR,
Maldives Bureau of Statistics
Email: mushfiqa.ibrahim@stats.gov.mv

Shaha Shakeeb
Associate Development Coordination Officer, Data Management and Results Monitoring / Reporting
UN Maldives Resident Coordinators Office
Email: shaha.shakeeb@un.org



United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/234802-training-workshop-enhance-use-administrative-data-official-statistics-production




Date: 25 May 2023
Title: High-level Session on Official Statistics - How can we collaborate to provide more relevant data and statistics for informed decision making?
Content: 25 May 2023
(25 May 2023, Male’) – A High-Level Session on Official Statistics, taken place on 25 May 2023, Thursday, was conducted by Maldives Bureau of Statistics with the support from the Statistics Division of UN DESA (UNHQ). The session aimed to foster collaboration among stakeholders and explore strategies to provide more relevant data and statistics for informed decision making.
The event, held at Meerumaa Events in Moonimaa Maalam, featured esteemed speakers and experts in the field of official statistics, including Government Ministers many of whom are members of the Ministerial Committee on Official Statistics. Also participating were the Governor of the MMA, the Commissioner General of Taxation, the United Nations, the Maldives Bureau of Statistics (MBS) and other agencies of the National Statistical System. Members of the Statistical Council also engaged during the event.
The session commenced with an opening address by Honorable Mohamed Aslam, Minister of National Planning, Housing, and Infrastructure, who emphasized the importance of data-driven decision making in shaping effective policies and strategies.
Ms. Catherine Haswell, the UN Resident Coordinator, delivered her remarks highlighting the significance of official statistics and their role in promoting sustainable development and evidence-based decision making to keep on track with achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the Maldives.
Ms. Vibeke Oestreich Nielsen, Inter-Regional Adviser on Statistical Training and Capacity Building at the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD), presented on the topic of responding to user needs and achieving high-quality and up-to-date data sources. Her insights shed light on the strategies and mechanisms necessary for meeting user requirements effectively, with collaboration being of high importance in the context.
The session also featured a presentation by Ms. Aishath Hassan, Chief Statistician, who provided an overview of the statistical system in Maldives. She discussed the current utilization of administrative data and highlighted the key challenges faced by the government in collaborating and sharing data to produce accurate and timely statistics.
Ms. Vibeke Oestreich Nielsen further elaborated on the use of administrative data for official statistics, with a specific focus on employment and migration statistics. Her presentation explored the potential of administrative data sources in enriching the understanding of these critical aspects and more generally.
An interactive discussion took place, facilitated by Ms. Vibeke Oestreich Nielsen, focusing on employment and migration data across the Maldives Statistical System (MSS). Participants shared existing challenges in Maldives with reference to making data readily available and usable for all and creating an open and trusting environment for agencies to share their data.
UN Maldives with the support from the Government of Maldives is committed to supporting initiatives that promote collaboration and the use of data for informed decision making. Events like the High-Level Session on Official Statistics contribute to the advancement of data-driven governance and policy formulation. Statistics form an essential part of the Government of Maldives’ reporting its Voluntary National Review (VNR) on progress on SDGs to the UN High Level Political Forum (HLPF) in July 2023.

For media inquiries or further information, please contact:


Ms. Aminath Mushfiqa Ibrahim
Director, HR
Maldives Bureau of Statistics
Email: mushfiqa.ibrahim@stats.gov.mv

Ms. Shaha Shakeeb
Associate Development Coordination Officer, Data Management and Results Monitoring / Reporting
UN Maldives Resident Coordinators Office
Email: shaha.shakeeb@un.org

Ms. Vibeke Oestreich Nielsen
Interregional Advisor on Statistical Training and Capacity Building Development Data and Outreach Branch
United Nations Statistics Division
Email: vibeke.nielsen@un.org
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/233289-high-level-session-official-statistics-how-can-we-collaborate-provide-more-relevant-data-and




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: National consultation to strengthen social protection in the Maldives
Content: 03 May 2023
(03 May 2023, Male’): The National Consultation on Readiness to Implement Action Plan to Strengthen Regional Cooperation on Social Protection in the Maldives was launched in Maldives jointly by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services, and the United Nations Maldives team.
Governments in Asia and the Pacific have increasingly recognized social protection as a key policy instrument to build a more productive, protected and healthy population in Asia and the Pacific. In 2020, ESCAP member States endorsed the regional Action Plan to Strengthen Regional Cooperation on Social Protection, which serves as a shared vision, strategy and platform for promoting partnership and peer learning as well as identifying needs for capacity development. The Action Plan sets out 12 national actions that underpin the achievement of more inclusive and comprehensive social protection systems, ranging from upholding the right to social protection in legislative and regulatory frameworks, to ensuring a more effective design, coordination and delivery of social protection schemes.
To support member States in the implementation of this first ever regional Action Plan, ESCAP has been undertaking stocktaking initiatives on the readiness to implement the Action Plan and achieve more inclusive and comprehensive social protection systems in Cambodia, Georgia, Maldives, Mongolia, the Philippines and Turkey.
The Maldives has demonstrated strong commitment to social protection and achieved universal old age pensions through both contributory and non-contributory schemes, as well as a universal disability allowance and universal health insurance.
The stocktaking consists of a brief report that showcases the Maldives’ policies for promoting social protection and its overall readiness to implement the national actions of the Action Plan. A second part of the stocktaking exercise involves a national consultation with selected participants from the Ministries to discuss and validate the findings of the draft report, notably its recommendations for achieving the objectives of the Action Plan. The consultation also served as a forum to reflect how a more holistic and strategic social protection system could be an economic investment in future labour markets, the economy and prosperity of the country.
Launching the National Consultation, the Vice President of Maldives Faisal Naseem highlighted ongoing progress made on social protection, such as the launch of the registry portal for persons with disabilities by the National Social Protection Agency (NSPA), the implementation of non-contributory schemes for persons in vulnerable situations, as well as pension plan, stressing the need to work collectively with all stakeholders and communities to better the lives of the people of the Maldives.
Aishath Mohammed Didi, Minister of Gender, Family and Social Services, elaborated on the recently developed National Framework on Social Protection and called on the need for decentralized responses as well as importance to strengthen a more unified and holistic social protection system and welcomed the consultation and Action Plan as a way forward in this.
Reflecting on the different pathways to more inclusive and comprehensive social protection systems across countries in the region, Srinivas Tata, Director, Social Development Division, ESCAP outlined the key elements within the Action Plan that underpin strong social protection systems. Emphasizing the need for a lifecycle approach, Catherine Haswell, UN Resident Coordinator for Maldives, indicated it was an opportune moment to gather and review the various components of Maldives’ social protection system, to leverage what has worked and make adjustments to transform the system into one which meets the future needs of the Maldives.
As the country moves forward to implement the National Framework on Social Protection, the Consultation was a rare opportunity to engage stakeholders from across different line Ministries and stakeholders in the Maldives to chart actions towards a future where all Maldivians are protected.
For more information:
Shaha Shakeeb, Associate Development Coordination Officer, UN Maldives RCO (shaha.shakeeb@un.org)
Kavita Sukanandan, Public Information Officer, Communications and Knowledge Management Section, ESCAP (escap-scas@un.org)
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/231450-national-consultation-strengthen-social-protection-maldives




Date: 02 May 2023
Title: Joint Steering Committee Meeting
Content: 02 May 2023
Joint Press Release

(02 May 2023, Male’): The Government of Maldives and the United Nations in Maldives convened the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026 Joint Steering Committee (JSC) Meeting today. The UNSDCF is the blueprint for the UN development system’s support to the Maldives’ national priorities for achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The JSC is the governing body of the UNSDCF. It is co-chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Maldives and the United Nations Resident Coordinator and includes representatives of Government Ministries, and United Nations agencies, funds, and programmes with operational activities in the Maldives. The JSC meets annually to review progress made in the previous year, identify the challenges and review the plans ahead and provide strategic direction and advice for the implementation of the UNSDCF.
This is the first meeting of the JSC to discuss the implementation of the UNSDCF in 2022 and the plans for 2023. In 2022, fifteen UN entities partnered with Government, young people, Local Councils and Women’s Development Committees, State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), Organizations for Persons with Disabilities and representatives of migrants and organizations working on migrant issues, CSOs, private sector, and international community towards achieving the UNSDCF’s results of shared prosperity and inclusive human development for all, sustainable and climate resilient environment, gender-responsive, rights-based and accountable governance and justice.
At the center of the UNSDCF implementation is the focus on investing in people. The implementation of the UNSDCF is rights-driven and upholds the principles of gender equality and women’s empowerment, sustainable development and resilience, and accountability, ensuring that no one is left behind. The details of the results achieved, the challenges faced and the lessons learned in 2022 for the UNSDCF implementation are outlined in the ‘UN Maldives Annual Report 2022’. Through joint efforts, the Government of Maldives and the UN hope to achieve significant progress in the Maldives’ journey where all people meaningfully participate in, contribute to, and benefit equitably from sustainable cultural, economic, and social development and environmental protection, by 2026.
Speaking at the JSC Meeting, Secretary, Economic Cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of Maldives Co-chair for the JSC, Dr. Hussain Niyaz noted that the Cooperation Framework provides the opportunity to meet the exigencies of the Government while also allowing to revisit and revitalize the different contours of partnerships between the UN and the Maldives to fulfill the national development priorities envisioned in the current Strategic Action Plan (SAP 2019-2023).
The UN Resident Coordinator and the UN’s co-chair for the JSC, Ms. Catherine Haswell thanked the Government and the stakeholders for their active engagement in implementing the first year of the UNSDCF. Recognising that 2023 marks the mid-point of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and with only 7 years remaining to achieve the SDGs, she encouraged all partners to work together and accelerate progress so that no Maldivians are left behind. She further highlighted the opportunity of the Global SDG Summit to be held in September 2023 in New York as a critical opportunity for the Maldives to reiterate its commitment to achieving the SDGs for the benefit of all Maldivians. (02 May 2023, Male’): The Government of Maldives and the United Nations in Maldives convened the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026 Joint Steering Committee (JSC) Meeting today. The UNSDCF is the blueprint for the UN development system’s support to the Maldives’ national priorities for achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The JSC is the governing body of the UNSDCF. It is co-chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Maldives and the United Nations Resident Coordinator and includes representatives of Government Ministries, and United Nations agencies, funds, and programmes with operational activities in the Maldives. The JSC meets annually to review progress made in the previous year, identify the challenges and review the plans ahead and provide strategic direction and advice for the implementation of the UNSDCF.
This is the first meeting of the JSC to discuss the implementation of the UNSDCF in 2022 and the plans for 2023. In 2022, fifteen UN entities partnered with Government, young people, Local Councils and Women’s Development Committees, State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), Organizations for Persons with Disabilities and representatives of migrants and organizations working on migrant issues, CSOs, private sector, and international community towards achieving the UNSDCF’s results of shared prosperity and inclusive human development for all, sustainable and climate resilient environment, gender-responsive, rights-based and accountable governance and justice.
At the center of the UNSDCF implementation is the focus on investing in people. The implementation of the UNSDCF is rights-driven and upholds the principles of gender equality and women’s empowerment, sustainable development and resilience, and accountability, ensuring that no one is left behind. The details of the results achieved, the challenges faced and the lessons learned in 2022 for the UNSDCF implementation are outlined in the ‘UN Maldives Annual Report 2022’. Through joint efforts, the Government of Maldives and the UN hope to achieve significant progress in the Maldives’ journey where all people meaningfully participate in, contribute to, and benefit equitably from sustainable cultural, economic, and social development and environmental protection, by 2026.
Speaking at the JSC Meeting, Secretary, Economic Cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of Maldives Co-chair for the JSC, Dr. Hussain Niyaz noted that the Cooperation Framework provides the opportunity to meet the exigencies of the Government while also allowing to revisit and revitalize the different contours of partnerships between the UN and the Maldives to fulfill the national development priorities envisioned in the current Strategic Action Plan (SAP 2019-2023).
The UN Resident Coordinator and the UN’s co-chair for the JSC, Ms. Catherine Haswell thanked the Government and the stakeholders for their active engagement in implementing the first year of the UNSDCF. Recognising that 2023 marks the mid-point of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and with only 7 years remaining to achieve the SDGs, she encouraged all partners to work together and accelerate progress so that no Maldivians are left behind. She further highlighted the opportunity of the Global SDG Summit to be held in September 2023 in New York as a critical opportunity for the Maldives to reiterate its commitment to achieving the SDGs for the benefit of all Maldivians.

United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/230519-joint-steering-committee-meeting




Date: 22 March 2023
Title: MALDIVES INTEGRATED NATIONAL FINANCING FRAMEWORK (INFF)
Content: 22 March 2023
ENDORSEMENT OF THE MALDIVES INTEGRATED NATIONAL FINANCING FRAMEWORK (INFF), SUPPORTED BY UN IN THE MALDIVES
Malé, March 21, 2023: The Maldives Minister of Finance has formally endorsed the Maldives Integrated National Financing Framework (INFF). The Maldives INFF delivers a comprehensive financing strategy on climate action and provides a set of highly action-oriented strategies to unlock both domestic and external resources; from the private sector, international financing institutions, philanthropic, and impact and cause-driven sources of financing, to augment and scale-up existing public sources of financing towards climate and social sector financing needs.
The strategy aims to support the financing of the Maldives Strategic Action Plan (2019-2023), Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and other national and sectoral development plans to enable the achievement of the national and international climate and sustainable development commitments made by the country. The INFF is a core priority identified in the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2022-2026 between the UN and the Government of Maldives. The financing strategy puts achieving gender-equality at the heart of all financing actions, as an important cross-cutting theme and provides specific policy options to ensure that the actions proposed under the strategy are gender-sensitive.
Following the launch of the INFF, Minister of Finance Ibrahim Ameer announced the intention to establish the Maldives Climate Finance Hub (MCFH) within the Ministry of Finance, with the technical assistance of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), as the primary mechanism to implement the financing strategy and provide overall technical expertise to the Ministry of Finance and other relevant sector ministries and agencies on climate finance matters. An Advisory Board will be established with representation from national and international stakeholders, to provide advice and guidance to the MCFH.
The INFF is a global UN initiative being implemented in more than 86 countries worldwide to finance National Development Plans (NDPs) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). There are currently 18 Small Developing Island States (SIDS) developing their own INFFs and today, the Maldives becomes the first SIDS country to develop and formally endorse an INFF and financing strategy.
Speaking at the INFF launch, Minister Ameer stated, “This financing strategy will advance the Maldives climate agenda, to transform our economy away from fossil fuel dependency, strengthen resilience to external shocks, and drive existing and new investments towards sustainable and inclusive growth.”
The development of the Maldives INFF began under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance in June 2020. Through a United Nations Joint Programme led by the UN Resident Coordinator, UNDP Maldives provided technical advisory to the Ministry of Finance to develop the INFF. The process of INFF development was spearheaded by a high-level Steering Committee consisting of 13 Government agencies, co-chaired by the Honorable Minister of Finance of the Maldives, Ibrahim Ameer and by the United Nations Resident Coordinator, Catherine Haswell. The INFF is the result of an extensive consultative process whereby, stakeholders from public, private, NGOs, industry bodies and IFIs provided support and input.
United Nations Resident Coordinator Catherine Haswell noted the importance of the delivery of this work, in the context of intergovernmental negotiations for the next COP on Climate Action in Egypt in November 2023, the currently ongoing meeting on the Global Goal for Adaptation (GGA) being hosted by the Maldives, the 2023 UN Water Conference (22-24 March), and the SDG Summit in New York in September. Moreover, it is a critical piece which demonstrates the expertise and role of the UN in upper middle-income countries as a provider of integrated policy advice with the potential to unlock a series of portfolios which can accelerate delivery of the 2030 Agenda.
UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives, Enrico Gaveglia congratulated Minister Ameer, and stated, “You have often been confronted with denial of market access because of unfavorable demographic accounting or the so-called economies of scale. I can assure you, if we all manage to put a value tag to your natural resources, you’d leapfrog to be the holder of a global natural asset that shall be safeguarded with all our efforts simply because it benefits all – you in Maldives and elsewhere.”
This collaboration between United Nations and the Ministry of Finance continues the value-added joint effort in enhancing the parallel implementation of the Maldives’ development agenda, and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Gender-Responsive Integrated Climate Financing Strategy endorsed by the Government of Maldives can be accessed at https://www.finance.gov.mv/public/attachments/lzyzZHIHy0ZWB7Yl17aw16YkFhE5o8DfVxThmruO.pdf
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/224276-maldives-integrated-national-financing-framework-inff




Date: 10 December 2022
Title: The Human Rights Heart of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development
Content: 10 December 2022
OpEd by H.E. Ms. Catherine Haswell - UN Resident Coordinator for the Republic of Maldives and H.E. Mr. Denis Chaibi - EU Ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
“We the peoples of the United Nations [are] determined… to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small...”

From the preamble of the United Nations Charter, UN founding document signed in 1945
From the time of its inception, the United Nations has recognized Human Rights as being fundamental to its mission. The UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) on 10 December 1948. It was drafted as a ‘a common standard of achievement for all people and nations’, spelling out for the first time in human history basic civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights that all human beings should enjoy. It has become widely accepted as the fundamental human rights that everyone should respect and protect.
Every year on the 10th of December, the international community marks the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) by celebrating International Human Rights Day. As we approach the 75th year of the adoption of the UDHR in 2023, a year-long campaign will showcase, celebrate, and focus on its legacy, and continued relevance, with the theme “Dignity, Freedom, and Justice for All” and the call to action “Stand Up for Human Rights.”
Drafted by representatives with different legal, cultural, and religious backgrounds from all regions of the world, the UDHR is a set of universal, indivisible and inalienable rights, recognizing the equal dignity and worth of every person. It was the first time that the international community agreed on a set of common values and acknowledged that rights are inherent to every single human being, and not granted by the state. It continues to inspire movements for change for a more equal and inclusive world that benefits everyone.
Human rights are guaranteed by treaties, customary international law, and other sources of law; for all of which the Universal Declaration of Human Rights serves as both foundation and inspiration. All of this has then been voluntarily signed, ratified, and acceded to by UN Member States in their determination to respect and protect the rights of those within their respective jurisdictions.
The Republic of Maldives is a State party to seven core human rights treaties encompassing broadly; civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights as well as more specifically on addressing torture, racial discrimination, discrimination against women, and upholding rights of the child and persons with disabilities.
With regards to those legal commitments, many of the human rights treaties’ provisions are reflected in the Maldives legal framework. Most significantly, Chapter Two of the Maldives Constitution enshrines over 50 fundamental rights and freedoms, premised on the principles of non-discrimination and equality, ranging from the right to life and protection of the environment, to economic and social rights, freedom of expression, association and assembly, and the right to work and acquire property as well as prompt investigation and prosecution, and humane treatment of arrested or detained persons.
In an address to the People’s Majlis in early 2022, President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih spoke on the many strides the Maldives has made to promote and protect human rights in the country, while highlighting the ongoing challenges, particularly in the aftermath of the global Covid-19 pandemic. We applaud all efforts to improve human rights for all in the Maldives, while recognising that there is still much work to be done.
One important step taken by the Maldives was the standing invitation issued to the UN Human Rights Council independent human rights experts - individuals and working groups known as Special Procedures.
This year, the Maldives Government received two Special Procedures mandate holders. The Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism came last May and the Working Group on discrimination against women and girls visited the Maldives last September.
These two experts recognized the same two fundamental issues as among the biggest hurdles to achieving full human rights for all in the Maldives.
As already expressed by the President in his February speech at the Majlis earlier this year, the first issue is about extremism, which has taken root within Maldivian society. In this context, the exploitation of religion lays “bare the magnitude and complexity of the work required to combat violent extremism.” Recommendations by the visiting human rights experts may provide part of the normative framework necessary to amplify ongoing efforts to uproot extremism in society.
“In order to address the challenges of violent extremism and terrorism in a human rights compliant manner, prison conditions must be improved, judicial independence must be assured, lawyers must be able to function effectively to defend persons charged of such offences, and the police must be accountable for any violations committed during investigations.” (Special Rapporteur, Ms. Fionnuala Ní Aoláin)
The second issue highlighted by both the Special Rapporteur and the Working Group is about the importance of the civic space for society. It is essential to ensure that non-governmental actors, such as civil society organizations and the media, can enjoy conditions in which they can uphold good governance and accountability of the authorities. The Government has a duty to create conditions that actively support the ability and capacity of persons, individuals or in association with others, to engage in civic activities. In looking at measures to improve civic space therefore, it requires cooperation between the State and civil society actors.
Besides the two hurdles, the experts from the Working Group on discrimination against women and girls noted and welcomed “new laws and recent institutional measures focusing on gender equality”. At the same time, certain long-standing provisions are still discriminatory and punitive, denying women and girls full human rights and freedoms. In this regard, Gender-Based Violence is prevalent and even tolerated. “Survivors face many barriers in access to justice and remedies, and perpetrators enjoy impunity.” (Press Release – UN Working Group on discrimination against women and girls)
Earlier this year, the UN in the Maldives began implementing the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF), the blueprint for all UN efforts in the Maldives through 2026. Central to the Cooperation Framework is the investment in people, based on principles of human rights, and gender equality, women’s empowerment, sustainable development and resilience. It is a joint commitment of the UN and the Government to support national development priorities and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) while leaving no one behind.
Bearing the above in mind, the European Union’s priorities for cooperation with the Maldives until 2027 focuses on the promotion of human rights, good governance, gender equality, inclusivity, and resilience as core themes.
This EU support will be at the heart of the EU-Maldives’ partnership, which will rely, inter alia, on the Maldives Government’s determination to promote and protect human rights, including through its seat at the Human Rights Council for the term 2023 - 2025.
As we enter the 75th year of the adoption of the Universal Declaration for Human Rights, the UN and EU look forward to assisting and supporting the Government in implementing effectively and meaningfully the recommendations from the various human rights mechanisms that Maldives is engaged with, whether the Human Rights Council, Special Procedures or Treaty Bodies, with the ultimate goal of ensuring dignity, freedom, and justice for all.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/210911-human-rights-heart-2030-agenda-sustainable-development




Date: 07 September 2022
Title: Maldives: First visit by UN experts on discrimination against women and girls
Content: 07 September 2022
GENEVA (7 September 2022)  ̶  A United Nations expert group on discrimination against women and girls will undertake its first official visit to the Maldives from 11 to 22 September 2022 to assess progress and challenges in achieving gender equality and eliminating discrimination against women and girls in the country.
“The Working Group is particularly interested in legislative reforms and policies that have been implemented in the Maldives to promote the rights of women and girls, eliminate structural discrimination and achieve substantive gender equality,” the experts said.
The experts will examine multiple aspects of women’s and girls’ lives: political and public, economic and social, family and cultural life, health and safety, including gender-based violence against women and girls as a manifestation of discrimination and barriers to access to justice as crosscutting issues, employing a life cycle approach.
“We are interested in learning about achievements and promising practices, as well as the local historical and cultural context and existing gaps and challenges in the spirit of engaging in a constructive dialogue”, the experts said.
The experts, who are invited by the Government, will meet concerned stakeholders in Malé, Kulhudhuffushi in Haa Dhaalu Atoll, Maafushi in Kaafu Atoll, Maduvaree in Raa Atoll, Guraidhoo and Gulheefalhu in Kaafu Atoll.
They will pay particular attention to women and girls who encounter multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination, including among others those living in remote areas, women with disabilities, older women, migrant women, women in detention, and adolescent girls, as well as the gendered risks of climate change.
They will meet with national and local authorities, women and girls, civil society organisations, academics, journalists, political leaders, UN entities and other international stakeholders. The visiting delegation will include Melissa Upreti and Meskerem Geset Techane, respectively Chairperson and Member of the Working Group.
The experts will present their preliminary observations at a press conference on Thursday, 22 September 2022, at 2:00 pm (local time) at the Hotel Maagiri in Malé. Access to the press conference will be strictly limited to accredited journalists.
The Working Group will submit its full report to the UN Human Rights Council in June 2023.
ENDS
The UN Working Group on discrimination against women and girls was created by the Human Rights Council in 2011 to identify, promote and exchange views, in consultation with States and other actors, on good practices related to the elimination of laws that discriminate against women. The Group is also tasked with developing a dialogue with States and other actors on laws that have a discriminatory impact where women are concerned.
The Working Group is composed of five independent experts: Ms Melissa Upreti (Nepal), Chairperson; Ms Dorothy Estrada Tanck (Mexico),Vice Chairperson; Ms Elizabeth Broderick (Australia); Ms Ivana Radačić (Croatia); and Ms Meskerem Geset Techane (Ethiopia).
The Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/198289-maldives-first-visit-un-experts-discrimination-against-women-and-girls




Date: 23 August 2022
Title: Unintended and Unwanted? 2 Babies Taken to State Care Every Month
Content: 23 August 2022

UNFPA’s 2022 State of the World Population Report highlights that half of global pregnancies are unintended. In the Maldives, 24 babies were taken into state care in 2021 alone - which accounts to 2 babies per month - a crisis unfolding before our eyes. This year’s report titled "Seeing the Unseen: The case for action in the neglected crisis of unintended pregnancy", focuses on the global crisis that so many women and girls face on a daily basis. The report was launched on 7th of June 2022 in the Maldives by the First Lady Madam Fazna Ahmed. Coinciding with the call for action, the Villa College Institute of Research and Innovation (IRI), in collaboration with UNFPA conducted a high level panel discussion, highlighting the Maldivian context and leveraging policy makers to take much needed action.
All Panelists stress that the Maldives situation is a crisis which needs urgent action. Dr. Ibrahim Zakjariyya Moosa, Vice Chancellor of the Islamic University of Maldives, emphasised how the Islamic Shariah forbids subjugation of women and obedience towards husbands without consent. Moreover the Islamic jurisprudence also provides an avenue for planned families in the society’s progress, a concept which is often debated and hinders women’s access to safe contraceptives.
For the women affected, the most life-altering reproductive choice, whether or not to become pregnant – is no choice at all.  Ms. Safiyya Moahmed Saeed, Deputy Minister for health highlights this and the fact that girls in the Maldives are often asked and pressured into marriage, when they are going to have a baby and how many - burdens the girl into adulthood and beyond.
Humaida Abdul Gafoor also echoes this sentiment in which she shares her independent qualitative research into women’s plight and lack of access to reproductive services - duty bearer’s inaction and neglect has led to lack of information and services, especially for young people's autonomy to every part of the journey to pregnancy and parenthood. As such, we cannot blame or shame young people for adult’s inaction. The autonomy for women and girls is hindered when they are unable to access safe and proper contraceptive methods.
Mohamed Shihab, Minister of State for Gender, Family and Social Services, nicely weaves the story of Haseena - a rights holder and an average woman living in our society. She bears a child at age 14 years, and gets rejected by her own family, neighbours and community - having to live on streets. She has no choice but to resort to sex work to feed herself and her child. Eventually her child also faces the same fate having to be married-off out of court at age 15, to a substance user. All of this leads to further rejection and marginalization from within the society. Such cases are common in the Maldives. They are all stuck in a life of violence and a never ending cycle of generational abuse within her family and community.  How can we as duty bearers and service providers adequately offer her a dignified life ? Urgent action is needed now to alleviate such barriers and change the harmful norms in our society - to empower women like Haseena to take charge of her own life.
“We want the society to view women as a whole - not just their pregnant bellies and babies” - stresses Shadiya Ibrahim, Head of Office of UNFPA Maldives. Our hope is that with these discussions we can bring a ripple effect where policy makers are better aware of the lived realities of women and girls in our society, to mitigate unintended pregnancies and provide necessary services for all. Let us all view women and girls as whole human beings - with their right to a dignified life free from violence!
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196095-unintended-and-unwanted-2-babies-taken-state-care-every-month




Date: 23 August 2022
Title: Call for inputs from the mandate of the Working Group on discrimination against women and girls for its country visit to Maldives
Content: 23 August 2022
The UN Working Group on discrimination against women and girls will conduct a country visit to the Maldives in order to gain first-hand understanding of issues related to discrimination against women and girls, including efforts made and remaining challenges.
The Working Group will consider all forms of discrimination in law and in practice relating to all areas of women’s lives, namely public and political life, economic and social life, including corporate responsibility, family and cultural life and health and safety. These issues are addressed in the Working Group’s thematic reports to the Human Rights Council. Violence against women and access to justice will be examined as cross-cutting issues. Throughout the visit, the Working Group will pay particular attention to women who encounter multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination. This list of issues is indicative, and the Working Group might look at other issues as they emerge during the visit including women from minority groups, women with disabilities, rural women, older women, women in prostitution/sex work, LBTI women, migrant women, women in detention etc.
For this purpose, the WGDAW will meet with a broad range of national stakeholders involved in all aspects of work related to the elimination of discrimination against women, including Government officials, public authorities, independent institutions, civil society organizations, academics and victims, with a view to examining issues related to discrimination against women and girls in the country.
At the end of the visit, the Working Group will present an end-of-mission statement and/or press release containing preliminary findings and recommendations for State and non-State actors to implement. The full mission report will be presented at the 53rd session of the Human Rights Council in June 2023.
Thus, civil society actors and all interested stakeholders are encouraged to submit general inputs and specific proposals with regards to:
Context
Family and cultural life of women
Economic and social life of women
Political and public life of women
Women’s rights and access to health
Violence against women as a crosscutting theme
Women who encounter multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination

including rural women, minority women, women with disabilities, lesbian and transgender women, older women and women in detention.
Women's access to justice
Promising practices in relation to the protection and promotion of women’s and girls’ human rights
You do not need to provide inputs to all the issues mentioned above, but you can focus on the ones relevant to your area of work. If you reply after 11 September 2022, your submission might not be considered during the country visit but will be taken into account in the drafting process of the Working Groups’ report before the Human Rights Council in 2023.
Submission will remain confidential. They will be considered during the country visit and will be taken into account for the Working Group’s report before the Human Rights Council in 2023.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196128-call-inputs-mandate-working-group-discrimination-against-women-and-girls-its-country-visit




Date: 23 August 2022
Title: Sound Management of Chemicals
Content: 23 August 2022
The new project will build upon our ongoing efforts - to reduce the risk of Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) and hazardous chemicals on human health and the environment. By the end of the projects, the sound management of over 500 tonnes of hazardous wastes is envisioned.
More from the speech by UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives Enrico Gaveglia at the World Environment Day celebrations, also speaking as UN Resident Representative ad interim.
https://www.undp.org/maldives/speeches/world-environment-day
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196076-sound-management-chemicals




Date: 31 July 2022
Title: World Health Organization equips Maldives with PCR Kits to enable in-country testing and diagnosis of Monkeypox
Content: 31 July 2022
WHO Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus declared the Monkeypox outbreak a ‘Public Health Emergency of International Concern’ (PHEIC) on 23 July 2022 and issued recommendations to countries to implement a coordinated response, stop transmission and protect vulnerable groups.
“We are very pleased to have been able to support Maldives in establishing in-country Monkeypox diagnostic technology and capacity within seven days of WHO declaring Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC).” said Dr Nazneen Anwar, WHO Representative to Maldives, “For this; I thank my Country Office team for their vigilance and active role in supporting Maldives’s preparedness and response efforts. I also take the opportunity to thank Minister of Health His Excellency Ahmed Naseem and team from Health Protection Agency Maldives for the partnership and seamless collaboration.”
At this time, WHO recommends that any individual meeting the definition for a suspected case of Monkeypox should be offered testing based on both clinical and epidemiological factors to rule out all other possibilities. The establishment of this technology further enhances identification of positive and negative cases of Monkeypox, increases the overall capacity of laboratory, and as a result further strengthens the country’s Health System. To build capacity, WHO is partnering with Health Protection Agency and laboratory teams to organize an orientation and training program on running the kits and for interpretation of results.
“With the support of Regional Director for WHO South East Asia Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh we are optimistic that more kits for Monkeypox diagnostics will be received in the coming months.” said H.E Ahmed Naseem, Minister of Health. In his remarks, he thanked the World Health Organization for always being there for Ministry of Health, and for the tremendous support and assistance extended by Dr Nazneen Anwar and Country team.
From January to July 2022, 19,000 probable and confirmed cases of Monkeypox have been reported to WHO by 78 countries across all six WHO Regions. Though the risk of Monkeypox globally and in South East Asia Region is moderate, the potential of further international spread is real, and countries must strengthen preparedness and response capacities navigated by WHO’s guidance to address and contain this outbreak.
WHO will continue to work with the Government to ensure that Maldives is prepared to respond to this public health emergency in a coordinated manner which actively combats stigma and protect the vulnerable.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196093-world-health-organization-equips-maldives-pcr-kits-enable-country-testing-and-diagnosis




Date: 30 July 2022
Title: Governments of UK and Australia Extends Support to UNDP’s Third Integrated Governance Programme for the Maldives
Content: 30 July 2022
The new Integrated Governance Programme - IGP III, reaffirms the long-standing partnership between Maldives and development partners, building on several areas of support with an accelerated focus to channel development cooperation through UNDP’s newest offer of support to the country as outlined in the Country Programme for Maldives 2022-2026.
UNDP has co-designed its Governance Portfolio with key governance stakeholders in the country, and benefits from the advise and oversight of a representative board, co-chaired by UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives, Mr. Enrico Gaveglia, Attorney General His Excellency Ibrahim Riffath, Minister of Gender, Family and Social Services, Her Excellency Aishath Mohamed Didi and the Chief Executive Officer of the Local Government Authority (LGA), Ms. Afshan Latheef.
Under this integrated platform of partners in which civil society organizations and representatives of rights-holders also participate, the programme aims to achieve the following outcomes:
I.         Open, decentralized, and gender-responsive governance systems;
II.        Equitable access to justice and human rights; and,
III.       Empowered, cohesive and resilient communities.
The support of the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to IGP III, has a distinct focus on gender equality and disability inclusion, access to justice, grassroots movements and engaging young people, and will enable interventions across all three outcome areas to be undertaken in close collaboration with government stakeholders.
“As a proud partner in the Integrated Governance Program since 2012, Australia has been privileged to be part of Maldives governance reform journey,” said Australian High Commissioner to the Maldives H.E. David Holly. “Effective, accountable and inclusive governance systems – from the national to the grassroots – allow us to achieve our full potential as nations and individuals. We look forward to working, under the roadmap provided by IGPIII and alongside UNDP and the Government and citizens of Maldives, to help further embed these principles.”
The support from the Government of UK, channeled through the Conflict, Security and Stability Fund, will aid in strengthening and sustaining the progress on the Legal and Justice Sector Reform Agenda of the Maldives’ Government. Key objectives include enhancing institutional resilience and local governance through citizen participation and empowerment, towards a more resilient, socially cohesive, and tolerant community.
“Our actions are always more powerful and effective when we find ways to harmonise them with the efforts of others and look for linkages across sectors and the community. So, I am really pleased that we have taken this step, with Australia, to back UNDP’s approach to enable decentralization, putting people and their rights at the heart of the matter. I think the oversight the high-level Board will provide should really help to ensure effective, inclusive delivery,” said H.E. Caron Röhsler, British High Commissioner to the Maldives.
Australia and UK have been longstanding partners of UNDP and the Maldives – a solidarity that has enabled UNDP to provide dedicated need-based support towards consolidating democracy in the Maldives. This includes amplified efforts to reform the judiciary, and the legal and justice sector; support towards creating an independent and empowered civil society and media; formative and sustained support to decentralization and local governance; and support to advancing the country’s efforts towards women’s empowerment and gender equality.
“With the endorsement of the Integrated Governance Programme III, UNDP’s support to Maldives shapes out a new geometry of partnerships across government and development partners willing to accelerate results and operate at a sustained scale in key levers such as data-driven, inclusive, and anticipatory governance; as well as enhanced fiscal and financing options for an effective decentralized public administration. We see in the IGP the creation of a new space for participation for policy making which is inclusive and caring to all,” noted Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196070-governments-uk-and-australia-extends-support-undp%E2%80%99s-third-integrated-governance-programme




Date: 25 July 2022
Title: Maldives’ First Informal Sector Survey Report Launched
Content: 25 July 2022
The study, Informal Sector Survey 2021: Rapid assessment of the impact of COVID-19 on informal sector, developed by the Maldives Bureau of Statistics (MBS) with technical support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the Maldives, was launched today. It compares a sample of informal employment pre- and post-pandemic, looking at loss of income and employment across industries and gender.
Informal sector plays a key role in the Maldives by providing employment opportunities, especially within the atoll populations. According to the Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES 2019) - a household sample survey conducted regularly by MBS, the informal sector provided employment for 19% of the population. 43% in the sector are reported to be self-employed women, putting them in a vulnerable position when a crisis unfolds.
Informal sector neither has employment security nor social security, which exacerbates the workers’ social and economic exposure, particularly for women who require special attention in national efforts to create livelihood opportunities and need a reasonable safety net which goes beyond income. There’s an urgent need for effective, targeted, and sustainable measures to address the adverse livelihoods impact on informal sector workers due to crises such as COVID-19.
“In this regard, the findings of this survey can serve as a valuable contribution to deepen the national understanding of the impact of the health crisis on the informal sector and the effectiveness of policy measures taken. The study may also guide fiscal policies targeted to the informal sector in the future,” said Aishath Hassan, Chief Statistician of MBS.
The survey found that loss of income across all industries has been significant, with women particularly unable to go back to previous employment. It not only produced evidence of the pandemic pushing workers from the formal sector to the unofficial economy - with women dominating the switch, but also women-led informal enterprises were found to be less likely to formalize their businesses owing to barriers such as inability to find the time to commit to task due to competing household or family demands, or lack of awareness of business registration and tax registration processes which prevent them from registering in the appropriate national mechanisms.
“From supporting the Rapid Livelihoods Assessment immediately in the aftermath of the pandemic, to partnering to conduct a dedicated gender analysis of this sector, it is a distinct effort of UNDP to support the Maldives in reshaping social and economic recovery with the most vulnerable in primary focus. In particular, this study aims at enhancing ongoing dialogues where policies need to be able to capture pandemic recovery efforts to mitigate effects on women. The results of the survey sheds light into the effectiveness of countercyclical measures deployed in the Maldives, which would be helpful for the design of social protection measures responsive to crises. Rebuilding the economy to generate green, resilient, and inclusive development cannot succeed without full consideration of the challenges of the informal sector,” said Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives.
The study provides four general recommendations for policymakers: first, establishment of an informal sector monitoring mechanism; second, strengthening social protection for the informal sector; third, introduce measures to retain workers and keep Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) afloat; and fourth; strengthen access to finance for the informal sector.
The launching ceremony of the informal sector survey findings also saw the handover of 20 tablets by UNDP to facilitate digitalized data collection for Census 2022 by the Maldives Bureau of Statistics. The assets transferred represent the assistance of UNDP to the Government of Maldives to support the collection and portrayal of a comprehensive snapshot of the economic, social, and cultural make-up of the country through the Census, which will guide the planning and development processes of the country.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196072-maldives%E2%80%99-first-informal-sector-survey-report-launched




Date: 25 July 2022
Title: UNODC provides mentorship to investigators from the National Integrity Commission
Content: 25 July 2022
The session was organized as part of UNODC technical assistance within specific focus areas identified by NIC.
The session laid out practical aspects of investigators' role regarding NIC’s mandate to carry out oversight functions in correctional institutions as part of law enforcement entities. A practical tool was provided to the investigators to assist them during the inspection of detention facilities. The tool outlined the areas to be analyzed by the investigators, streamlining and organizing relevant information that would need to be gathered.
Participants shared positive feedback about the level of knowledge and skills provided by UNODC experts, highlighting that the session will assist them in the performance of their future professional tasks.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196101-unodc-provides-mentorship-investigators-national-integrity-commission




Date: 04 July 2022
Title: Enhancing Judicial Education
Content: 04 July 2022
The development and launch of handbooks and videos to support the work of the Witness and Victim Support Unit of the Prosecutor General’s Office, providing essential information to witnesses and victims.
The handbooks and videos can be found on https://lethun.pgo.mv/
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196075-enhancing-judicial-education




Date: 03 July 2022
Title: First Board Meeting of Integrated Governance Programme III
Content: 03 July 2022
The meeting saw remarks and comments from the Board, who also shared reflections on the evaluations of IGP II and provided insights on key takeways and learnings from the past.
UNDP Maldives Resident Representative Enrico Gaveglia noted the opportunity with the IGP III and existing Board to move forward with aligned interests. He thanked Board members for their continued partnership and recognized their added value to the program. The Resident Representative closed the meeting acknowledging the IGPIII drive for better coordination and highlighting how implementing activities that are new and innovative would move our institutions in a new direction.
The IGP III Board is chaired by UNDP, with co-chairs being Attorney General’s Office, Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services, and Local Government Authority. The Board is also represented by the President’s Office, Department of Judicial Administration, Judicial Services Commission, Supreme Court of Maldives, National Counter Terrorism Centre, Peoples Majlis, Transparency Maldives, Maldives Association of Persons with Disabilities. New Member of the Board include Government of Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade and Government of United Kingdom, with Government of Japan and EU representatives as observing members.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196077-first-board-meeting-integrated-governance-programme-iii




Date: 03 July 2022
Title: SDG investment mapping mission: exploring SDG-aligned investment opportunities in the Maldives
Content: 03 July 2022
Following SDG Impact’s methodology, the ‘SDG Investor Map Maldives’ aims to identify investment opportunity Areas in the country which are aligned with national priorities and SDG needs while carrying considerable investment potential. So far, the map development team has been able to identify the priority sectors and subsectors that respond to development needs, policy momentum and private sector interest within the Maldives context.
The SDG Investor Map development process for Maldives also entails a thematic deep dive into Climate Finance, allowing to explore more incisive themes such as Climate Finance, Water and Sanitation, and Renewable Energy among others that are a priority for a country’s national development agendas and by extension, for the UNDP country portfolio. The SDG Investor Mapping Exercise is supported by Ministry of Economic Development.
A joint climate investment mapping mission was undertaken to Fuvahmulah by UNDP Maldives along with the Ministry of Economic Development, SDG Impact and the Istanbul International Centre (IICPSD) * where we met with the council, entrepreneurs and the business community. The mission focused on the potentials for developing investment opportunities in the city under the sustainable blue economy framework and Future of Work (FoW).
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196080-sdg-investment-mapping-mission-exploring-sdg-aligned-investment-opportunities-maldives




Date: 03 July 2022
Title: Gender sensitization and capacity-building program for the Gender Equality Action Plan (GEAP) technical committee
Content: 03 July 2022
The program was intended to provide an orientation on gender concepts, the legal framework for gender equality in the Maldives and gender mainstreaming. Members formulated the annual work plans under the GEAP to faciliate an effective and multi-agency implementation process.
Day two of the capacity-building program for the GEAP Technical Committee included a session on gender-responsive budgeting (GRB) as well as a session on international commitments such as CEDAW and the national legal framework for gender equality.
The program also included a presentation from the Asian Development Bank on their Strengthening Gender Inclusive Initiatives (SGII) project which integrates numerous elements of the GEAP, including GRB, ensuring affordable childcare, strengthening the use of gender statistics and Domestic Violence and Gender-based Violence service delivery.
Working sessions for all five policy goals in the GEAP were conducted in Day two and Day three. The Technical Committee members discussed specific action points for each goal, including planned activities in each institution and proposed timelines for implementation.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196079-gender-sensitization-and-capacity-building-program-gender-equality-action-plan-geap




Date: 30 June 2022
Title: UNODC supports the Government of Maldives in its ongoing juvenile justice reform through tailored workshops on children in conflict with the law
Content: 30 June 2022
Working in close cooperation with the Department of Juvenile Justice, Ministry of Home Affairs, UNODC conducted a comprehensive Technical Assistance Needs Assessment which provided the basis for the provision of tailored technical assistance in this area in 2020.
After a successful multi-disciplinary Training of Trainers on Juvenile Justice conducted in August 2021, UNODC and the Government of Maldives continued to work together to identify priority areas of intervention that would further support practitioners in their efforts to apply child-sensitive approaches to juvenile justice in Maldives.
UNODC has also worked closely together with the Department of Juvenile Justice since 2021 on ways to strengthen existing referral mechanisms, to collect and gather information, to analyze the data and build a database on data collected during the child assessment, as well as on how to draw conclusions and write assessment reports.
After a first workshop delivered in 2021, the advanced workshop conducted on 26-27 June 2022 in Male built on the achievements of the first training event, targeting specifically 13 juvenile justice officers who conduct child assessments, including as per the Juvenile Justice Act of the Republic of Maldives.
To further support the Government in its comprehensive juvenile justice reform and, more specifically, the implementation of diversion for children in conflict with the law, UNODC, in preparation of the workshop conducted in June, began a series of virtual consultations with national counterparts to better understand issues encountered by practitioners in the implementation of alternatives to judicial proceedings in 2021.
The multi-disciplinary workshop conducted on 28-30 June 2022 brought together 30 participants from six institutions working in the area of diversion, including Maldives Police Service; Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services; Juvenile Court; Ministry of Education; Department of Juvenile Justice, Ministry of Home Affairs; Prosecutor General’s Office, fostering cooperation and coordination for the effective implementation of diversion and restorative justice approaches. This provided an opportunity for stakeholders to exchange experiences, share solutions and good practices and address issues related to multi-sectoral coordination and cooperation to better assist children in conflict with the law.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196103-unodc-supports-government-maldives-its-ongoing-juvenile-justice-reform-through-tailored




Date: 28 June 2022
Title: UNDP's brand-new Tax for SDGs program kicks-off in Maldives
Content: 28 June 2022
The United Nations Development Programme kicked-off consultations for its brand-new ‘Tax for SDGs’ program in Maldives with Maldives Inland Revenue Authority and Ministry of Finance. This program is a part of wider global program covering over 25 countries. Maldives and Bhutan were selected as the only two focus countries from South Asia for this year’s program. This program will provide support to the Government of Maldives to align tax and fiscal policies with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and augment the capacities of institutions to create efficient and equitable tax systems.
More specifically, the program will provide support on three areas:
1. Increased capacity to tackle tax avoidance, evasion and IFFs,
2. Governments increasingly aligning Tax and fiscal policy with SDGs and,
3. Incorporating developing country experiences across 6 thematic workstreams.
The next immediate action is the formulation of the Country Engagement Plan with Government partners.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196082-undps-brand-new-tax-sdgs-program-kicks-maldives




Date: 23 June 2022
Title: Specialised national workshop and legislative consultation focuses on handling electronic evidence
Content: 23 June 2022
Building on UNODC’s practical guide and data disclosure framework, the event touched upon fundamental topics linked to gathering of electronic evidence across borders. It provided, in particular, an outline of challenges and best practices linked to the various means to collect evidence from foreign jurisdictions, including Mutual Legal Assistance, preservation, voluntary and emergency disclosure requests.
The event was highly interactive, allowing participants to practice drafting requests and discuss gaps in the Maldivian institutional and legislative frameworks which could hinder the process.
7 male and 8 female participants from the Prosecutor General’s Office, Maldives Police Service and the Attorney General’s Office joined the event.
Two experts from private companies and a representative of the US’s Department of Justice also provided their insights during dedicated online sessions, explaining procedures and requirements for the disclosure of evidence.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196104-specialised-national-workshop-and-legislative-consultation-focuses-handling-electronic




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: UNODC launches construction of the Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre premises
Content: 20 June 2022
The event was attended by the Ambassador of Japan to Maldives, the Minister of Defence, UNODC-GMCP’s Programme Coordinator, and senior officials from the Maldives National Defence Force.
Once finished, the building will have the new MRCC operations room, accommodation spaces and classrooms that can be used to host national and international training programmes to increase the skills of members of government agencies involved in search and rescue (SAR), and maritime law enforcement operations.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196105-unodc-launches-construction-maritime-rescue-coordination-centre-premises




Date: 20 June 2022
Title: UNODC convenes second Maritime Domain Awareness Interagency Workshop in the Maldives
Content: 20 June 2022
The first one was held in 2021 as the first multi-agency approach to maritime security in the country, which proved to be useful as a neutral, impartial platform facilitated by UNODC to enable discussions by multiple relevant government institutions.
During the meeting, several agencies provided updates on recent maritime incidents, their response mechanisms and the challenges identified to achieve successful prosecution or impose punishments to perpetrators.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196106-unodc-convenes-second-maritime-domain-awareness-interagency-workshop-maldives




Date: 19 June 2022
Title: WHO and Robert Koch Institute pilots the Training for Health Emergency Operations Centres (ProTECt) in the Maldives
Content: 19 June 2022
Maldives finalized the Health Emergency Operations Plan (HEOP) in 2019. The COVID-19 Pandemic in 2020 presented an opportunity for the HEOP to be implemented as a full exercise across the nation for the very first time. Though the plan was detailed and comprehensive, the field-level experience from the COVID-19 pandemic had identified real life situations, challenges and areas that needed more capacity building.
The ProTECt training from Robert Kotch Institute was planned to be implemented in a phased-out approach, with the five-day training focused on the central level HEOC Staff with participation from Health Protection Agency, Ministry of Health and different stakeholders and clusters from HEOC. The second phase of the training will be focused on the atoll and island levels. In this regard, WHO in partnership with RKI will ensure that the training materials are tailored and customized to each individual atoll and island, based on the findings and feedback from the central level training.
All participants and facilitators actively contributed to all the sessions, and the exercise concluded with a roadmap of trainings planned on the targeted areas. In recognition of their support, certificates were awarded to all participants and facilitators by Dr Shah Mahir, Minister of State of Ministry of Health
“The training and inputs shared by the trainers and participants will help us improve but also understand the bottlenecks that are faced in the field, which can be adapted to expand to atoll and island levels too.” said Dr Nazneen Anwar, WHO Representative, “WHO will continue to enhance partnerships with centers of excellence such as the Robert Koch Institute to ensure the best opportunities are provided for Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196092-who-and-robert-koch-institute-pilots-training-health-emergency-operations-centres-protect




Date: 16 June 2022
Title: UNODC concludes maritime navigational training courses for Maldives Coast Guard
Content: 16 June 2022
Practical exercises were conducted in the coastal region near the Greater Male Region, with theoretical classes were held at the Maldives National Defence Force’s Marine Base.
Course subjects included boat handling, emergency procedures, maritime navigation and orientation, among others.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196110-unodc-concludes-maritime-navigational-training-courses-maldives-coast-guard




Date: 14 June 2022
Title: UNODC promotes non-custodial measures to reduce overcrowding in prisons
Content: 14 June 2022
The consultation was attended by officials from MCS, Department of Judicial Administration, Maldives Police, Attorney General’s Office and the Prosecutor General’s Office.
UNODC South Asia’s Criminal Justice Expert and Commissioner of Maldives Correctional Service addressed the consultation, highlighting the importance of non-custodial measures in order to reduce overcrowding in prisons.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196112-unodc-promotes-non-custodial-measures-reduce-overcrowding-prisons




Date: 12 June 2022
Title: UNDP Maldives Launches Sixth Edition of ‘Island Life’ Magazine
Content: 12 June 2022
‘Island Life’ magazine is a compilation of stories that sheds light on key development challenges faced by the Maldives, and the work UNDP is doing together with our partners to address these issues in the country. Presented in the publication are perspectives from the Government, civil society, development partners, and stories of the passionate communities and individuals UNDP works with.
The magazine launching event hosted at Velana International Airport by the Maldives Airport Company Limited, was attended by Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, H.E. Ahmed Khaleel, Special Envoy for Climate Change, H.E. Sabra Ibrahim Noordeen, UN Resident Coordinator in the Maldives, Ms. Catherine Haswell, and was presided by UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives, Mr. Enrico Gaveglia. Prior to the event, the magazine was also presented to the Minister for Tourism, H.E. Dr. Abdulla Mausoom.
Preceding the magazine launch, a Statement of Intent (SOI) was also signed between UNDP Maldives and Island Aviation Services Limited (Maldivian – The National Airline of the Maldives), to collaborate on an advocacy campaign promoting the magazine, and in promoting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) focusing climate adaptation and mitigation and improving governance and livelihoods in the Maldives.
“To augment partnerships for development, we have initiated conversations with key industry leaders and partners here in the Maldives and abroad, who can help amplify our messages out of the country beyond the tourists visiting these wonderful shores. In doing so, we aim at leveraging, influencing, and generating a different kind of support for Maldives. One that talks to consumer responsibility and appreciation for our nature,” said Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Maldives Resident Representative, speaking at the launching ceremony.
UNDP partnerships in the Maldives serve to advance the national agenda and assist in realising national development priorities. ‘Island Life’ magazine spotlights our continued work and partnership coalitions towards this end.
UNDP’s new value offer to the Maldives, under UNDP’s new Country Programme Document for the Maldives 2022-2026, strongly aligned with the UN Cooperation Framework and national development priorities, reaffirms the long-standing partnership between UNDP and the Government, building on  several areas of support through the decades,  and lays the foundation for accelerated and focused development cooperation.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196083-undp-maldives-launches-sixth-edition-%E2%80%98island-life%E2%80%99-magazine




Date: 08 June 2022
Title: Maritime Domain Awareness assessment to Marine Police in the Maldives
Content: 08 June 2022
As part of this preparation, UNODC Maritime Expert led discussions on gaps in terms of capacity and division of government institutions’ roles in terms of maritime crime.
The Head of Marine Police and senior officers participated in the event.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196113-maritime-domain-awareness-assessment-marine-police-maldives




Date: 06 June 2022
Title: Interagency session on ensuring legal finish of maritime crime
Content: 06 June 2022
Four officers from Marine Police, four - from Coast Guard and three public prosecutors participated, discussing issues related to comprehensive approaches to maritime security, overview of priority maritime threats in Maldives and understanding maritime law enforcement challenges, specifically drug trafficking, illegal finish and environmental protection.
This activity is in line with the UNODC Global Maritime Crime Programme’s (GMCP) maritime domain awareness capacity-building support to the Government of Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196116-interagency-session-ensuring-legal-finish-maritime-crime




Date: 30 May 2022
Title: Practice Parliament for Women Concludes
Content: 30 May 2022
The Practice Parliament for Women focuses on enabling women to be more involved in the decision-making processes in the country by increasing capacity development and training programmes for women active in the political arena to build their skills and knowledge to contest for elected positions. This cycle of the Practice Parliament for Women saw the successful completion of the programme by 36 women (aged over 25 years), including 5 Persons with Disabilities (PWDs). Participants represent women leaders from all across the country.
“Australia is committed to protecting the rights of women and girls and promoting their positive and active role in shaping communities. The Australian Government’s COVID-19 development response strategy, “Partnerships for Recovery” recognizes the importance of women and girls’ meaningful engagement for inclusive development. This strategy and DFAT’s agenda of gender equality and women’s empowerment strategy highlight the critical importance of involving women and girls in policy development and implementation,” said H.E Amanda Jewell, Deputy Australian High Commissioner in Sri Lanka and Maldives.
Over the course of the 7-day programme, participants were informed on the fundamentals of civic education, key parliamentary processes, and relevant policy issues, followed by a Practice Parliament Sitting where they performed model parliamentary proceedings.
Sessions were conducted by People’s Majlis and UNDP Maldives along with different government and civil society organisation partners, including the Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services, Attorney General’s Office, Information Commissioner’s Office, Local Government Authority and Transparency Maldives, touching on key topics such as the national Gender Equality Action Plan, different types of law-making, Right to Information, decentralisation in the Maldives and challenges to social cohesion.
The participants also met with the Speaker of the People’s Majlis, Hon. President Mohamed Nasheed and Deputy Speaker of the People’s Majlis, Hon. Eva Abdulla. Participants also had a Q&A session with the first female Deputy Speaker of the People’s Majlis, Ms. Aneesa Ahmed.
“I am extremely grateful for and excited by the implementation of this programme and the way that it is reaching women who need these types of programmes the most,” said Hon. Jeehan Mahmood, MP for the Hinnavaru Constituency. “The skillsets that this Practice Parliament programme has instilled will be useful for these women everywhere, at any time in their lives, especially in leadership positions.”
Practice Parliament builds on the concept of experiential learning to provide the opportunity for aspiring individuals to learn by doing, build new networks and allies through shared understanding, engage in dialogue with other individuals of the same cohort to further inform their values and perspectives, and enable them to acquire new skills at a practical setting to improve their ability to become effective change makers and legislators.
The first Practice Parliament for Women in 2021 saw the participation of 48 women leaders, including 2 PWDs, from across five atolls (Kaafu, Laamu, Seenu, Gnaviyani and Meemu atolls).
“Despite some progress, women’s proven capacities as leaders and agents of change are yet to be fully embraced. Underrepresentation of women in politics as well as in productive sectors of society continue. We are committed to working with our partners to build the blocks of an inclusive, equitable and caring society; one that has those at the margins in care, and one that transcends into women’s meaningful participation in the socio-economic and political spheres of Maldives,” said Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives.
UNDP Maldives in partnership with People’s Majlis of the Maldives will be conducting two additional cycles of the initiative this year – another Practice Parliament for Women programme and one Practice Parliament for Youth programme.
The call for applications for the next Practice Parliament for Youth and Practice Parliament for Women will be announced in June and July 2022 respectively.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196084-practice-parliament-women-concludes




Date: 29 May 2022
Title: Visioning Maldives: Leadership Dialogues - Second Session on Data-for-Policy
Content: 29 May 2022
‘Visioning Maldives: Leadership Dialogues’ aims to expose leaders to the latest trends in public administration, development policy and innovation. Each session of this program will bring together global experts and top political officials to solicit exchange and knowledge sharing on 21st century leadership to inspire and support the Government of Maldives in leapfrogging into a ‘future proof’ development nation.
The second session of the ‘Visioning Maldives’ dialogues will be held virtually on June 1, 2022. The theme for this high-level policy dialogue is ‘Data-for-Policy: Harnessing the potential of data for evidence-based policymaking’. The dialogue will explore the growing role of data in shaping, design, and delivery of public policies, zooming in on the evolving institutional and functional capabilities of the public sector required for strengthening agile, adaptive, and real-time policymaking.
Dr. Ibrahim Hassan, Minister of Higher Education will deliver the opening remarks of the session. Moderated by Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives, the speakers for the session include Alex Oprunenco, Head a.i of the Regional Innovation Centre UNDP Asia Pacific; Sanyukta Samaddar, Adviser on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) from NITI Aayog of the Government of India; and Astha Kapoor, co-founder of the Aapti Institute. The expert panelists will weigh in on how data has become both an asset and a risk in the post-pandemic world and, share experiences on how governments are managing effective decision-making using data and highlight new ways of seeing and doing data governance.
The first session of the ‘Visioning Maldives: Leadership Dialogues’ was held on 23 March 2022 on ‘Leading through Uncertainty: Strategic Foresight.’ The session saw the participation of over 300 top government officials.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196086-visioning-maldives-leadership-dialogues-second-session-data-policy




Date: 24 May 2022
Title: Maldives: UN expert cautiously welcomes government commitment to bringing nationals home from Syria but urges more action on repatriation and reintegration
Content: 24 May 2022
At the end of a 10-day visit to the Maldives, Fionnuala Ní Aoláin, the UN Special Rapporteur on the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism, called on the authorities to urgently repatriate their women and children from Al Hol and Roj camps in North-East Syria and other conflict zones.
More than 50 Maldivian nationals are believed to be living in the camps, without proper access to food, clean water, healthcare and education. Ní Aoláin said children were living in horrific and unacceptable conditions of detention. “These children are victims of terrorism and must be treated with dignity and respect and returned to the Maldives without stigma to live normal and productive lives,” she said.
Ní Aoláin said the full and available support of the United Nations including the expertise of her mandate are in place to support the Maldives Government in this effort. “The government must plan concretely for reintegration and treat families and communities of individuals returning as partners in the repatriation process,” the expert said.
Acknowledging the establishment of a National Reintegration Centre, Ní Aoláin advised caution. “Practices of long-term administrative detention, including of children, would be in breach of the country’s international human rights obligations,” she said.
The Special Rapporteur noted that the Maldives had strengthened its counter-terrorism law and policy in recent years to address the complex challenges of terrorism and violent extremism in the country. Recognising the government’s positive efforts on legislative reform, including amendments to the Anti-Terrorism Act, Ní Aoláin urged Maldivian authorities to bring the legislation into full compliance with international human rights standards. She urgently highlights the need to prevent impunity for acts of terrorism and violent extremism.
“In order to address the challenges of violent extremism and terrorism in a human rights compliant manner, prison conditions must be improved, judicial independence must be assured, lawyers must be able to function effectively to defend persons charged of such offences, and the police must be accountable for any violations committed during investigations,” the Special Rapporteur said.
At the end of her visit, Ní Aoláin also expressed deep concern regarding the constriction of civic space and challenges faced by human rights defenders and civil society actors in the country, particularly the digital harassment of women.
During her visit the Special Rapporteur met government officials, the police, military, and corrections services. She engaged with a wide and diverse range of civil society actors including religious leaders. Ní Aoláin visited three places of detention and welcomed her full access to detainees.
The Special Rapporteur’s report on the visit will be presented to the Human Rights Council in March 2023.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196126-maldives-un-expert-cautiously-welcomes-government-commitment-bringing-nationals-home-syria




Date: 26 April 2022
Title: Reusable smart bag and rewards app launched to reduce single use plastics
Content: 26 April 2022
Through the ‘Plastic Noon Gotheh’ Rewards App, users will be able to link their reusable bags to the app and collect points every time they shop at STO. The points gained can then be used to claim rewards from telecom provider Dhiraagu and STO People's Choice Supermart.
“The reusable bags & app introduced by MACCS supports UNDP’s goal to improve waste management practices and technologies and support the use of innovative, environmentally sound and alternative products for a sustainable future,” said Enrico Gaveglia, Resident Representative of UNDP Maldives at the launch.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196073-reusable-smart-bag-and-rewards-app-launched-reduce-single-use-plastics




Date: 23 April 2022
Title: World Health Day 2022: Nationwide Recycled Art and Short Story Competitions "Our Planet, Our Health."
Content: 23 April 2022
Through the ‘Our planet, our Health campaign’ WHO will work together with the government and the public to share stories of steps they are taking to protect the planet and their health and prioritize well-being societies.
As part of the yearlong celebrations, WHO is partnering with Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education Maldives to conduct a Nationwide Recycled Art Competition and a Short Story Writing Competition. This will be a celebration of student’s creativity, expression and accomplishments in the field of visual arts and creative writing. The competition is also aimed to create agents of change within our future generations, encouraging the importance of green initiatives, helping the environment, and sustainable living.
Theme for Recycled Art and Short Story Competitions
• ‘Our Planet, Our Health’
Hashtag
#HealthierTomorrow
Eligibility
Students (Grades 1-9) from all schools nationwide
Categories for Recycled Art and Short Story Competitions
• Category 1: Students Grade 1-4
• Category 2: Students Grade 5-7
• Category 3: Students Grade 8-9
Prizes
FIRST PRIZE WINNERS (for both competitions)
• Category 1 (Grades 1-4): Apple iPad
• Category 2 (Grades 5-7): Laptop
• Category 3 (Grade 8-9): Laptop
SECOND PRIZE WINNERS (for both competitions)
• Category 1 (Grades 1-4): Nintendo Switch
• Category 2 (Grades 5-7): Samsung Tablet
• Category 3 (Grade 8-9): Apple Watch
THIRD PRIZE WINNERS (for both competitions)
• Category 1 (Grades 1-4): A-Touch Tablet
• Category 2 (Grades 5-7): Fujifilm Instax mini
• Category 3 (Grade 8-9): Headphones
+ All eligible participants will also receive a certification of participation
1. RECYCLED ART COMPETITION

1a) Media-Specific Submission Guidelines
• Mixed media accepted (e.g., painting, drawing, collage, sculpture) using recycled materials only (e.g.: plastic, rope, paper, glass, carboard, cloth, electronic waste, aluminum, steel, foam, discarded goods etc.)
• Artwork measurements should range between minimum 24x30 inches to maximum 40x50 inches
• Students may visit https://www.who.int/campaigns/world-health-day/2022 for inspiration and more information on the theme ‘Our Planet, Our Health’
1b) Submission Terms, Conditions and Contest Rules
i. Each student may submit 1 original artwork (hard copy) based on the theme “Our Planet, Our Health” to their respective schools by 30th May 2022
ii. Respective schools will shortlist the best 10 entries and send them to Ministry of Education
iii. There is no entry fee
iv. Artwork must be created safely using only recycled materials (e.g.: plastic, rope, paper, glass, carboard, cloth, electronic waste, aluminum, steel, foam, discarded goods etc.)
v. Students are encouraged to provide a caption describing their artwork in at least 2-3 sentences in English or Dhivehi language listing the recycled materials that were used
vi. Multiple artworks cannot be submitted by the same student
vii. Incomplete entries shall be disqualified. The artwork must be original, no copied work are allowed
viii. Last date for submission: 30th May 2022, 18:00hours. Late submissions will not be accepted.
ix. Artwork will be selected for the public exhibition by a panel consisting of members from Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health and World Health Organization Maldives
x. Criteria for judging is creativity and originality of the depicted theme, quality of artistic composition and overall design based on the theme. The decision of the Judges shall be final, and no correspondence will be entertained regarding this
xi. Students who are selected will be contacted by Ministry of Education through their respective schools
xii. Ministry of Education will support the logistics of bringing the art to Male’ if shortlisted
xiii. If a student’s work is selected for the exhibition, attendance of the student is required at a subsequent public exhibition and will be eligible to receive a prize
xiv. All necessary support such as mounting, framing, and displaying assistance will be provided for shortlisted students during the subsequent exhibition
xv. Participants will submit their entries at their own risk and expenses. We take no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered or other reason
xvi. By submitting an entry into the "Our Planet, Our Health” Art competition, it is understood that your artwork is agreed to be publicly displayed and on social media channels of World Health Organization, Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education with the rightful credit to the artist, and the right to use your/your child's name, age and city/island of residence for the sole purpose of identifying you/them as the artist of the entry
xvii. By submitting an entry into the "Our Planet, Our Health” art competition, you agree to all the terms conditions and contest rules
2. SHORT STORY COMPETITION

2a) Submission Guidelines
i. Stories must be between 200-250 words (approximately half to one page long)
ii. Story must be creatively written reflecting the theme “Our Planet, Our Health”
iii. Stories can be written in English or Dhivehi Language
iv. Stories must be typed, single-spaced, on single-sided sheets and in a readable, 12-point font
v. The title of the story must appear at the top of each page
vi. Story must be submitted with Name, Age, School and Location of the Author
vii. Students may visit https://www.who.int/campaigns/world-health-day/2022 for inspiration and more information on the theme ‘Our Planet, Our Health’
2b) Submission Terms, Conditions and Contest Rules
i. Each student can submit up to 3 short story entries to their respective schools
ii. Respective schools will shortlist the best 10 entries and send them to Ministry of Education
iii. Stories must not have been published, self-published, published on a website, broadcast, or featured amongst the winners in another competition
iv. Last date for submission: 30th May 2022, 18:00hours. Late submissions will not be accepted.
vi. Story must be creatively written reflecting the theme “Our Planet, Our Health”
vii. Stories can be written in English or Dhivehi Language
viii. Stories must be typed, single-spaced, on single-sided sheets and in a readable, 12-point font.
ix. Stories must not have been published, self-published, published on a website, broadcast, or featured amongst the winners in another competition.
x. The title of the story must appear at the top of each page
xi. Story must be submitted with Name, Age, School and Location of the Author
xii. Stories cannot be altered once entered
xiii. Shorty stories will be selected for publishing by a panel consisting of members from Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health and World Health Organization. Stories will be judged based on characteristics such as relevance to theme, plot, characterization, setting and atmosphere, writing quality, passion
xiv. The decision of the Judges shall be final, and no correspondence will be entertained regarding this
xv. Students who are selected will be contacted by Ministry of Education through their respective schools
xvi. Participants will submit their entries at their own risk and expenses. We take no responsibility for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered or other reason
xvii. Any plagiarized work will be disqualified. Incomplete entries shall be disqualified. The story must be original, no copied work are allowed
xviii. By submitting an entry into the "Our Planet, Our Health” Short Story Competition, it is understood that your selected Short Stories are agreed to be published by World Health Organization, Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education with the rightful credit to the author, and the right to use your/your child's name, age, and city/island of residence for the sole purpose of identifying you/them as the author of the entry
xix. By submitting an entry into the "Our Planet, Our Health” Short Story Competition, you agree to all the terms conditions and contest rules
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196094-world-health-day-2022-nationwide-recycled-art-and-short-story-competitions-our-planet-our




Date: 07 April 2022
Title: Designing Effective Local Solutions
Content: 07 April 2022
The establishment of SIP works from a deep immersion and listening process in each community, in its values and behaviors as the way to craft effective solutions. As the precursor to prototyping solutions, deep listening, collective sensemaking and co-creation are key steps towards building a portfolio of interventions on Future of Work (FoW)- a future where all youth, women, and others at risk of being left behind, contribute to and benefit from inclusive, resilient, and sustainable livelihood activities.
From initial stakeholder mapping to deep listening, collective sensemaking and co-creation, we have engaged more than two hundred people from 20 inhabited islands across the country and Greater Male’ Region. We validated our findings through two collective sensemaking sessions and conducted a combined co-creation session for Baa Goifulhafehendhoo in Fulhadhoo.
The co-creation session was pivotal in creating the space for individuals and institutions to merge local knowledge and experience around shared challenges and opportunities. Stakeholders from the local government, civil society, education sector and the communities of Baa Goifulhafehendhoo contributed widely and honestly to co-create solutions.
The people powered solutions seeks to empower women and youth, promote blue economy and sustainable local tourism. The emerging menu of interventions and how the pieces fit together for systemic impact helps us see the value of portfolio approach in doing development. We are excited to continue this journey.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196074-designing-effective-local-solutions




Date: 01 April 2022
Title: Handover of Water Networks in Raa Maduvvari and Baa Dharavandhoo
Content: 01 April 2022
In two inaugurations held at Raa Maduvvari and Baa Dharavandhoo respectively, the IWRM systems were handed over to the islands, providing the residents of these islands with running water in every household.
The IWRM systems operationalised will directly benefit 2698 island residents (including 1206 women) – 1628 residents (790 women) in Raa Maduvvari and 1070 residents (416 women) in Baa Dharavandhoo, giving them access to safe drinking water, increasing their water security and helping them overcome water shortages caused due to climate change.
Speaking at the ceremony, UNDP’s Deputy Resident Representative in the Maldives, Ms. Vera Hakim highlighted the importance of water provision, not just for consumption and hygiene, but also as a tool for communities and individuals to achieve economic growth and prosperity, stating that no groups must be left behind in our efforts to provide access to this vital resource.
Climate change-induced prolonged dry periods have caused increasing incidents of water shortages to many communities across Maldives. Provision of water during shortages is a great cost to the Government and since 2017, an average of USD 412,000 annually has been spent on dry period water provision.
As such, this project funded by the GCF is focused on implementing 3 key interventions to help the Maldives adapt to climate change:
Under the first objective, the project has established 4 IWRM systems and 25 Rainwater Harvesting (RWH) Systems in 29 islands.
During the inaugurations, Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Technology. H.E. Ms. Aminath Shauna stressed the importance of establishing sustainable and accessible water systems across the Maldives, noting how the combination of innovative technologies with sustainable rainwater harvesting methods are the key to guaranteeing water security for all island communities in the country.
In addition to the mix of rainwater, the IWRM systems will utilise solar energy for water production (100% renewable energy powered) to further reduce the cost of production. Piped water networks to each household will provide them with a metered water connection, whereby a fee will be charged through a tariff system. The IWRM facility also has water quality testing laboratories embedded to ensure the quality of the water with training provided to the system operators as well.
Following this handover, the water systems will be taken over by Fenaka Corporation Limited, who will carry forward the day-to-day implementing and managing of operations. At the inauguration, the Managing Director of Fenaka, Mr. Ahmed Saeed Mohamed stated that the company was proud of their role in providing easy and accessible water to all homes and residents of the island communities in the Maldives and re-affirmed their commitment to continue doing so.

United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196087-handover-water-networks-raa-maduvvari-and-baa-dharavandhoo




Date: 15 March 2022
Title: Partnerships to Accelerate Progress: UNFPA’s 7th Country Programme
Content: 15 March 2022
UNFPA will deliver on the outputs through strategic partnerships in reaching the nationally owned results. In this context, implementing partnership agreements have been signed between UNFPA and the Ministry of Health (MoH), Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services (MoGFSS), Maldives National University (MNU), Maldivian Red Crescent (MRC) and the Society for Health Education (SHE).
The empowerment of women and girls and ensuring gender equality is one of the key areas of the new CP7. The partnership agreement with the Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services was signed  by Minister Hon. Aishath Mohamed Didi and UNFPA Country Director Mr. Kunle Adneiyi, on 7th March to deliver on the transformative result of ending GBV and harmful practices, which will contribute to the newly endorsed Gender Equality Action Plan. The Minister in her remarks assured that the sustainable development goal 5 on gender equality will be given high priority and will ensure women and girls reach their full potential through bringing about transformational shifts.
UNFPA is also partnering with the Ministry of Health with the agreement signed on the 7th of March. The Minister Hon. Ahmed Naseem stresses the importance of strengthening the national family planning programme, to address the unmet need for family planning, rising unwanted pregnancies and high prevalence of infertility. Both the minister and Mr. Adeniyi agreed on the need to provide reproductive health services in a more holistic manner, from a development and rights based perspective to ensure every pregnancy and child are wanted.
For the first time UNFPA also signed its partnership agreement with the Maldivian Red Crescent (MRC) to  reduce  gender based violence (GBV) and provide support to survivors at community level.  The MRC Secretary General Fathimath Himya highlights the important work that needs to be done “to address gender based violence and to empower our communities to better address challenges faced by women and girls”. The agreement signed on the 6th of March with MRC will contribute to  prevent all forms of gender-based violence and to draw attention to this issue by engaging the civil society and local communities galvanising a solid network of support.
In the area of advancing sexual and reproductive health rights (SRHR), one of UNFPA’s long-standing partnerships was renewed with the signing of the agreement with the Society for Health Education (SHE), SHE chairperson Mr. Hussain Haleem mentioned the challenges and sensitivity of working to advance SRHR and thanked UNFPA for their continued efforts in supporting the organisation to provide reproductive health information; especially in reaching the marginalised and those furthest left behind.
One of the main components of the CP7 is to acquire young people with knowledge on SRH, life skills, leadership and empowerment. However, the challenge of the lack of trained professionals to deliver the Life Skills Based Reproductive Health Education (LSBRHE) hinders the successful delivery of UNFPA’s CSE (comprehensive sexuality education) and SRH/FP programme. Thus, UNFPA’s partnership with the Maldives National University will play a critical role in building the capacity of teachers and health service providers. Present with the Vice Chancellor Dr. Mohamed Shareef, this agreement signed on the 8th of March will facilitate in building the human capital and delivering quality services within the health sector and the education sector. Within academia, the partnership will look into exchange of knowledge across the region and world as UNFPA remains committed to educating more young people on sexual and reproductive health and empowering them to become leaders within the community.
Many hands make light work - thus, with the help of our partners and other stakeholders, UNFPA is heralding the ambitious 7th Country Programme with the aim to deliver progress and reach our goals in the Maldives. We will strive to rely on expertise and reach the furthest behind first, leaving no one behind.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196100-partnerships-accelerate-progress-unfpa%E2%80%99s-7th-country-programme




Date: 07 March 2022
Title: Supporting Small Island Developing States for a sustainable future
Content: 07 March 2022
07/03/2022 Male, Maldives/Rome - The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has placed Small Island Developing States (SIDS) at the centre of its work to transform agrifood systems,  because of their vulnerability to the climate crisis and other shocks and their importance in the protection of marine biodiversity.
Scattered around the globe but with just some 65 million inhabitants, SIDS account for only 1 per cent of global CO2 emissions, but they bear the brunt of the effects of climate change on their fragile economies.
To underline FAO’s commitment to island nations which are both on the front line of the climate crisis and other shocks and at the same time play a vital role as guardians of our oceans’ biodiversity Director-General QU Dongyu is making a two-day visit to the Maldives.
While here, the FAO Director-General is signing a Country Programming Framework with the government. It’s aimed at supporting the country’s efforts to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and build back better, increasing resilience to further shocks and addressing development needs. Qu will also meet several ministers and members of civil society and visit a fisheries company and a hydroponic farm, which grows produce without using soil.
Innovation crucial to future
“Increased innovation and digitalization can help the SIDS, and the rest of the world, achieve the multiple and cross-cutting targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the SAMOA Pathway Framework for Action,” linking commitments on sustainability in all its dimensions and follow-up actions to last year’s UN Food Systems Summit, Qu said.
Despite its idyllic image, the Indian Ocean country, consisting of more than 1200 islands, in many ways typifies the challenges SIDS face. Maldivian officials say they are already feeling the effects of precipitation changes and rising temperatures on food production using its tiny total 65 square km of agricultural land.
Reliant, like most of the SIDS, on food imports, except for fisheries, the Maldives is suffering the effects of unhealthy diets, resulting in high rates of Non-Communicable Diseases. It is also acutely vulnerable to fluctuating commodity prices, exacerbated by COVID-19, which has battered its vital tourism industry.
These factors all contribute to a need for “technical expertise and support, as well as financial investments into sustainable, regenerative food production, distribution, and consumption patterns,” Thilmeeza Hussain, Permanent Representative of Maldives to the UN and Special Envoy of the President of the General Assembly said in a keynote address to the SIDS Solutions Dialogue convened by FAO last month. “We look forward to continuing to work with key partners, such as the FAO and others, to implement the necessary changes to ensure equitable and sustainable food systems,” she added.
The SIDS Solutions Dialogue was just the latest in a series of platforms which FAO has organized, addressing the challenges faced by SIDS. It followed a SIDS Solutions Forum, co-convened by FAO and the government of Fiji in August 2021, which showcased a raft of innovative ideas developed in SIDS, with potential to be scaled up and replicated.
These included smart phone apps to promote healthier eating, based on locally available foods, to providing farming information and collating data on available health resources. The forum was the first of an event which is to be held biennially.
Among other FAO initiatives targeted specifically at SIDS is the The Global Action Programme on Food Security and Nutrition in Small Island Developing States (SIDS). It addresses the need for a more integrated, multi-stakeholder approach to the particular challenges they face in trying to achieve food security and nutrition, and prioritizes stronger international and inter-regional partnerships.
The COVID-19 Response and Recovery Programme also addresses key needs in the SIDS, while FAO’s establishment of  an Office of Small Island Developing States, Least Developed Countries and Landlocked Developing Countries helps to draw attention to the vulnerabilities of SIDS, as well as countries in the other two categories, and further a common approach to address the unique challenges faced by these countries.
FAO flagship initiatives benefit SIDS
In addition,  a number of SIDS benefit significantly from FAO’s flagship initiatives being implemented globally.  Among these are the Hand-in-Hand Initiative, accelerating rural investment and development, the 1,000 Digital Villages, helping communities take a giant leap forward in digitalization, the Technical Platform for Family Farming, supporting region-to-region cross-fertilization for policy innovation and the One Country One Priority Product, accelerating the development of new agricultural products.
All these initiatives add up to a strong commitment by FAO to ensure that SIDS are at the heart of efforts under its Strategic Framework to work towards better production, better nutrition, better environment, and a better life, leaving no-one behind - in some of the world’s most vulnerable communities.
That vulnerability was further highlighted in the Pacific region by the aftermath of Tonga’s January 15 underwater volcanic eruption and tsunami, which left parts of the islands’ agricultural land covered in ashfall and caused extensive damage to fisheries.  FAO and its UN partners are working with the Government of Tonga to implement plans for supporting the country’s farmers and fishers to rebuild their livelihoods after the disaster.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175655-supporting-small-island-developing-states-sustainable-future




Date: 06 February 2022
Title: Government and UNICEF launches Joint Positive Parenting Program
Content: 06 February 2022
The joint program, led by the Ministry of Education in collaboration with  UNICEF, aims to empower parents with positive parenting skills so that they can support their children’s growth more effectively from their early years of life and adolescents and help them to attain their full potential and fulfil their dreams and aspirations.
The five-year program is informed by the Situation Analysis of Children and Youth conducted in 2021 and shows that key child survival and development challenges facing children in the Maldives; -malnutrition, immunization, inclusion, violence against children, gender-based violence, sexual violence, exploitation (including online), and neglect, - can be addressed if parents, caregivers, and families are empowered with positive parenting skills.
“Wishing all parents, the wisdom, of positive parenting. Today I celebrate 27 years of being a parent and I have to say that I learn something new every day about positive parenting, either from my parents, siblings, daughter, son, other parents, etc. It is a work in progress. I guess it will always be,” said the First lady Madam Fazna.
The Implementation of the joint programme needs support and contribution from parents themselves. Hence, the launch kick-started with the first consultation meeting with parents who attended the event and shared their experiences and challenges and learned from each other. Their views will inform how the program is designed to make it relevant to their needs.
‘As a single parent of five and a widow, my mother is the epitome of strength. Through love, time, and attention she taught us to be kind and empathetic. Through numerous challenges, she showed us resilience and strength. Today, I can proudly pass on to my students what my mother as a parent passed on to me…forever I’m grateful,” said Dr. Aishath Ali, minister for Education.
Through this programme, parents will be empowered with skills and tools to be closer to their children, and promote child growth and development, create a safe environment both at home and beyond for children and adolescent girls and boys, including those living with disabilities.  It will also support parents with strategies to better fulfil their parenting roles and ensure their own well-being so that they can meet their children’s needs.
“UNICEF stands ready to support the efforts of the Government of Maldives, working with the Ministry of Education and other national partners, to provide an enabling environment for parents to be supported in fulfilling their responsibilities for the best interest of their children.  We are delighted to launch our joint programme on positive parenting and especially honored to have with us His Excellency the President, Ibrahim Solih, and the First Lady, Madam Fazna Ahmed who both champion child rights and well-being”, reaffirm UNICEF Representative in Maldives, Marjan Montazemi.
The Joint Positive Parenting Programme is also designed to address the 21 Century challenges and after-effects of the Covid 19 pandemic that exacerbated existing challenges parents, children, and adolescents face. The programme recognizes that today’s parents are faced with many questions, issues but also opportunities.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/196088-government-and-unicef-launches-joint-positive-parenting-program




Date: 13 January 2022
Title: Judicial Curriculum Training Programme Concludes
Content: 13 January 2022
The 'Judicial Curriculum Training Programme' was conducted by Judge Malcolm Simmons, and included components such as Sexual and Gender-Based Violence, Ethics and Judicial Conduct, Judicial Case Management and Legal Reasoning.
Over the years, UNDP together with partners, has been supporting judicial reform and strengthening capacity of the judiciary through various training and capacity building programmes.
With the aims to better inform such interventions, UNDP supported a comprehensive Training Needs Assessment (TNA) followed by the formulation of revised Judicial Training Curriculum for the Judicial Academy (JA) in the year 2020.
The TNA re-emphasized the need for continuing the judicial education process inclusive of new judge transition, and ongoing development. The TNA also highlighted the need to go beyond just the knowledge of substantive law, to take a more holistic approach to trainings such that it enhances the capacity of judges to perform their judicial responsibilities fairly, correctly, and efficiently.
Speaking at the concluding ceremony,  UNDP Resident Representative to the Maldive, Enrico Gaveglia emphasized the importance of judicial education in the administration and dispensation of justice, and stated that it not only ensures fair and equitable justice for all, but also helps build public confidence in the system.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175481-judicial-curriculum-training-programme-concludes




Date: 06 December 2021
Title: WHO provides support to Maldives in conducting a joint COVID-19 and HPV vaccines post-introduction evaluation (cPIE and HPV PIE)
Content: 06 December 2021
World Health Organization is supporting the Republic of Maldives to conduct a joint COVID-19 and HPV vaccines post-introduction evaluation from 5 December to 12 December 2021. The main objective of the HPV PIE and cPIE is to evaluate the overall introduction of HPV in the national immunization programme and the deployment of COVID-19 vaccines in the country.
The COVID-19 PIE and HPV PIE will be an 8-day evaluation exercise conducted at national and sub-national levels using WHO Guidelines. Information will be gathered by local and international experts through interviews, observation and data review at all levels of the health services. The expert group includes representation from all layers of WHO (HQ, RO, several country offices and WCO Maldives), UNICEF, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and MM Global Health to work with the in-country experts from the Ministry of Health.
In addition to the Greater Male’ region, the evaluation will also be conducted across seven atolls of the Maldives (Haa Alif, Shaviyani, Meemu, Lhaviyani, Thaa, Gaaf Dhaal and Gnaviyani). The team will collect data by conducting desk reviews, guided interviews, field visits to vaccination sites, households, health facilities, schools and vaccine cold storage sites using a specifically designed web based software tool . To conclude the evaluation, the team of experts will be presenting their findings to Ministry of Health and partners.
The Republic of Maldives initiated its COVID-19 vaccination campaign on 1st February 2021. Since then, there has been significant progress in the rollout and uptake of COVID-19 vaccines; corresponding to 87.44% (first dose) and 80.50% (second dose) vaccination coverage of the eligible population of 12+ years)

The HPV Vaccine was introduced in Maldives in 2019, targeting young girls between 10-14 years of age, followed by routine vaccination of age 10 in the national immunization schedule. In the first year of introduction, an EPI review (conducted from 18 to 26 August 2019) assessed the first-dose national administrative coverage to be at 91.9%.
The joint COVID-19 and HPV post-introduction evaluation supported by WHO is intended to highlight successful vaccine deployment and best practices from Maldives, recognize problems that need corrective action, identify lessons learned from the COVID-19 vaccine deployment to strengthen the overall national immunization system and services; specifically related to health workers, older adults, essential workers or persons with co-morbidities. After the evaluation exercise is concluded, the team will provide recommendations to improve roll-out of COVID-19 vaccines, especially in the context of vaccination of phased-in target groups and strategies for booster vaccination. The team will also document and share the lessons learned with other countries for their own COVID-19 vaccine deployment, and for future pandemic vaccine deployments.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175650-who-provides-support-maldives-conducting-joint-covid-19-and-hpv-vaccines-post-introduction




Date: 09 November 2021
Title: UNDP Maldives together with Dhiraagu commenced ‘Film for Change: Climate Edition’
Content: 09 November 2021
Initiated in 2017, the purpose of ‘Film for Change’ - an ongoing collaboration between UNDP and Dhiraagu, is to use the alternative medium of film to stimulate dialogue on different social issues amongst young people, decision-makers and the wider community. This year’s series is focused on empowering young people to explore and form narratives on issues of climate change in Maldives through the medium of film. The platform provides them with the necessary technical and creative skills on producing documentary-style short films using accessible devices such as mobile phones and tablets.
Speaking to the participants at the opening ceremony, Dhiraagu’s Manager Corporate Social Responsibility, Bishaara Hameed stated “We are very fond of this programme for a number of reasons. We believe it is such a unique and an impactful approach which gives a voice to young people. The best part is that it would be your story, your narrative that would be told through the medium of film. We hope it would also be an opportunity for you to think, explore and reflect on key issues related to climate action through this year’s climate edition”
Thanking Dhiraagu for the continued partnership with UNDP on initiatives such as ‘Film for Change’, UNDP Deputy Resident Representative Vera Hakim alluded to how this year’s ‘Film for Change’ is timely as it coincides with COP26, and as the world is focused on this pivotal moment in the fight against climate change. “UNDP is committed to confront climate change, markedly by bringing the private and public sectors together to showcase our unified efforts for sustainable development and community resilience. We are focused on empowering youth to bring out their voices on issues such as climate change and give them a platform to play the catalytic role in delivering fresh new ideas and solutions, in spreading awareness and transforming behaviours,” said Vera Hakim.
The youth participants of ‘Film for Change’ will undergo a training component and a post-production component with industry experts where trainees in groups will produce five short films under the main theme inspired by the Sustainable Development Goal: Climate Action (SDG-13). The films will then be screened via social media and other public platforms to be followed by dialogue. Additionally, the films also have the potential of being showcased on platforms for youth advocacy on climate change at local, regional, and global levels.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175479-undp-maldives-together-dhiraagu-commenced-%E2%80%98film-change-climate-edition%E2%80%99




Date: 04 November 2021
Title: Diabetes Society and World Health Organization jointly celebrate World Diabetes Day 2021 across Maldives
Content: 04 November 2021
An array of activities have been planned across five days in these islands to commemorate the occasion, with coordinative support from partners such as Eye Care Opticals, Society for Health Education (SHE), Health Protection Agency (HPA), Glow Fit Gym, Dhangethi Council, Dhangethi Health Centre, Island Councils, Schools, and locally based Women’s Empowerment Committees. Activities include Diabetes awareness and screening, eye screening for diabetic patients, mental health sessions, dialogue with young leaders and numerous physical activities (such as Diabetes Day Run, Zumba and Aqua aerobics). The activities will conclude with a Forum on Access to Diabetes Day for stakeholders.

“World Diabetes Day is a global occasion on which people with diabetes, health professionals, diabetes advocates, media, the general public and government organizations unite to raise awareness on diabetes. Your participation – both in the build-up to and following 14 November – is key to the success of the campaign.” said Aishath Shiruhana, CEO of Diabetes Society Maldives. “Taking part can be exciting and hugely rewarding”
“The starting point for living well with diabetes is an early diagnosis – the longer a person lives with undiagnosed and untreated diabetes, the worse their health outcomes are likely to be.” said Dr Nazneen Anwar, WHO Representative to Maldives, “Diabetes is preventable, treatable and it’s onset can be delayed through healthy lifestyle changes. WHO is delighted to support Diabetes Society of Maldives in this endeavor to raise awareness and instill good practices such as healthy diet, physical activity, usage of medication and importance of regular screening and treatment for Diabetes within our communities.”
14 November of each year marks the celebration of World Diabetes Day. Established in 1991 by the International Diabetes Federation with support from WHO in response to growing concerns about the health and economic threat posed by diabetes, World Diabetes Day became an official UN day in 2006.
Celebration of World Diabetes Day each year promotes universal health coverage for affordable and equitable access to diabetes management, including improving the knowledge and capacities of people with diabetes and their families to take charge of their own care, to reduce economic hardship in households which have few strategies for coping with the economic burden of diabetes. During a global pandemic which has already taken the lives of well over a million people; people with diabetes are seen to be paying a particularly high price. Not only do they have a higher risk of severe COVID-19 disease and death when infected, globally many are observed to have difficulty accessing the treatment they need due to disruptions to essential health services.
WHO estimates that 6% of the world’s population has diabetes. The total number today is four times what it was in 1980. The gravity of the situation demands a strong, united response from all organizations working in the areas of monitoring, prevention and treatment of diabetes.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175653-diabetes-society-and-world-health-organization-jointly-celebrate-world-diabetes-day-2021




Date: 26 October 2021
Title: UNICEF delivers equipment procured with the support of Government of Japan, to strengthen cold chain/supply capacity to the Ministry of Health
Content: 26 October 2021
The pandemic has brought to the forefront the importance of strengthening health system’s response to emergencies while ensuring continued essential health services to children and pregnant women.
Through this initiative, funded by the Government of Japan, UNICEF provided freeze free vaccine carriers, temperature monitoring devices/tool kits, personal protection equipment (PPE) for vaccination staff and related ICT equipment as well as the setting up of a vaccine store. The delivered items, combined with upcoming supplies in the pipeline and additional technical support worth over USD 950,000, will address immediate capacity gaps in the health system needed to continue the COVID-19 response as well as strengthen the national immunization programme.
The Government of Japan has been a firm supporter of the Government and people of the Maldives in its COVID-19 response since the initial outbreak of the virus. The Embassy has worked very closely with the Government authorities and International Organizations to strengthen the capacity to respond to COVID-19 public health emergency and to revitalize its socio-economic activities affected by the pandemic. Since 2020, Japan has committed grants to the Maldives health sector to address the urgent needs by providing emergency supplies and to mitigate the negative economic impacts, namely through:
In addition to these grants,
The financial support to strengthen cold chain and supply capacity received from the Government of Japan through UNICEF will have a positive and lasting impact on the health system’s capacity, including the vaccination efforts at the decentralized level.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175636-unicef-delivers-equipment-procured-support-government-japan-strengthen-cold-chainsupply




Date: 20 October 2021
Title: Government of Maldives, United Nations urge greater action to address devastating impact of climate change on children and young people
Content: 20 October 2021

MALE, Maldives, 20 October 2021 – In the run up to COP26, the Government of Maldives and UNICEF, in collaboration with UNDP, today hosted the “Our Climate, Our Present, Our Future” event in Male’, in an effort to spotlight the devastating impact of climate change on children and young people in Maldives and catalyze action and partnerships to mitigate its effects.
The event was attended by over 100 experts, business leaders and young people from Maldives and other small islands developing states (SIDS), such as Seychelles. It was opened by H.E. Ms. Aminath Shauna, Minister of Environment, Climate Change and Technology, with remarks by the UNICEF Deputy Regional Director for South Asia, Ms. Sun Ah Kim Suh, the British High Commissioner for Maldives, Ms. Caron Rohsler, and the UN Resident Coordinator a.i., Enrico Gaveglia, representing UNRC Ms. Catherine Haswell.
Through presentations and panel discussions, the event provided a platform for young people from Maldives and other SIDS to make their voices heard and lead by example through climate action, while also sparking synergies among the private sector for innovations, transfer of technology, know-how and climate resilient solutions. JICA was among multiple speakers supporting a more active role for innovation and private sector partnerships in climate action.
“Young people have a critical role to play in ensuring that climate change is addressed in the most inclusive manner to ensure maximum resiliency to our communities. We, as government leaders, need to ensure that their voices are welcomed and heard. We need to ensure that they are given platforms to express their views and concerns, so that youth today can lead their own path for change,” said the Minster of Environment, Climate Change and Technology, H.E. Aminath Shauna.
In his remarks, the UN Resident Coordinator a.i. stressed on the unique risks and consequences climate change poses for the future of island nations like Maldives. He also highlighted the crucial role of young people in climate action in accelerating achievement of the 2030 Agenda which will ensure a healthier, more resilient future for the people and planet.
While children and young people across the globe, especially girls, are the first affected by the climate crisis, they often remain the least empowered to influence climate change policy-making and action, despite their numerous solutions and contributions. In a recent poll run by UNICEF, 77% of young people in Maldives said that they were worried about the effects of climate change, and 92% said they wished to take more action, if provided with support.
“We must recognize the climate crisis as a child right’s crisis,” said Marjan Montazemi, UNICEF Representative in Maldives. “For children and young people in Maldives, climate change is a direct threat to their schools, their health centers, and their very survival. Children and young people must be given center stage in all climate negotiations and decisions, and the world must accelerate action to reduce emissions, invest in climate adaptation, actively work with young people and provide children with climate education and green and blue skills.”
Maldives has the lowest terrain of any country in the world: four-fifths of the country’s land is less than one meter above sea level. Erosion of the shoreline is already a severe issue in 64 percent of the Maldivian islands, and much critical infrastructure for children and families, including many schools, hospitals and health centers, sit within only 100m of shorelines. The country is predicted to become uninhabitable as early as 2050, and disappear before the end of the century.
“Seeing the effects of climate change on my country firsthand has been devastating, especially the rising sea levels,” said Aishath Zeeba Hamid, 19 years old, from Male. “It is a constant reminder that my country is right at the forefront of danger. Further worldwide assistance and cooperation is required, not just for Maldives but all other small island nations suffering similar fates.”
Plastic pollution and a limited waste management system remain a major challenge in Maldives, with islands across the country left littered with trash, a significant portion of which are single-use plastics which end up in the ocean and inside marine life. According to the Ministry of Environment, Climate Change and Technology, every year, 104 million non-biodegradable plastic bags are imported into the Maldives.
Meanwhile, the archipelago suffers from severe water scarcity, with some islands requiring desalinated water to be shipped in by boat. Water insecurity is slated to increase the incidence of water and vector-borne diseases, destruction of ecosystems, and children’s access to sanitation facilities.
The private sector is increasingly being recognized as key to boosting climate resilience through innovative solutions, transfer of expertise, technology, and financing.
“To ensure private finance supports the shift to a low-carbon economy, every major financial decision will need to take climate change into account,” said Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Representative in Maldives.
Maldives has taken ambitious steps to respond to the climate crisis and has been playing an active role on the world stage for over more than a decade, including with the country now holding the Presidency of the United Nations General Assembly. Maldives committed to phasing out single use plastics by 2023 and net zero emissions by 2030, and is also actively supporting children and young people’s direct involvement in climate negotiations and decisions, especially within the context of COP26.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175499-government-maldives-united-nations-urge-greater-action-address-devastating-impact-climate




Date: 20 October 2021
Title: Government of Maldives, United Nations urge greater action to address devastating impact of climate change on children and young people
Content: 20 October 2021
MALE, Maldives, 20 October 2021 – In the run up to COP26, the Government of Maldives and UNICEF, in collaboration with UNDP, today hosted the “Our Climate, Our Present, Our Future” event in Male, in an effort to spotlight the devastating impact of climate change on children and young people in Maldives and catalyze action and partnerships to mitigate its effects.
The event was attended by over 100 experts, business leaders and young people from Maldives and other small islands developing states (SIDS), such as Seychelles. It was opened by H.E. Ms. Aminath Shauna, Minister of Environment, Climate Change and Technology, with remarks by the UNICEF Deputy Regional Director for South Asia, Ms. Sun Ah Kim Suh, the British High Commissioner for Maldives, Ms. Caron Rohsler, and the UN Resident Coordinator a.i., Enrico Gaveglia, representing UNRC Ms. Catherine Haswell.
Through presentations and panel discussions, the event provided a platform for young people from Maldives and other SIDS to make their voices heard and lead by example through climate action, while also sparking synergies among the private sector for innovations, transfer of technology, know-how and climate resilient solutions. JICA was among multiple speakers supporting a more active role for innovation and private sector partnerships in climate action.
“Young people have a critical role to play in ensuring that climate change is addressed in the most inclusive manner to ensure maximum resiliency to our communities. We, as government leaders, need to ensure that their voices are welcomed and heard. We need to ensure that they are given platforms to express their views and concerns, so that youth today can lead their own path for change,” said the Minster of Environment, Climate Change and Technology, H.E. Aminath Shauna.
In his remarks, the UN Resident Coordinator a.i. stressed on the unique risks and consequences climate change poses for the future of island nations like Maldives. He also highlighted the crucial role of young people in climate action in accelerating achievement of the 2030 Agenda which will ensure a healthier, more resilient future for the people and planet.
While children and young people across the globe, especially girls, are the first affected by the climate crisis, they often remain the least empowered to influence climate change policy-making and action, despite their numerous solutions and contributions. In a recent poll run by UNICEF, 77% of young people in Maldives said that they were worried about the effects of climate change, and 92% said they wished to take more action, if provided with support.
“We must recognize the climate crisis as a child right’s crisis,” said Marjan Montazemi, UNICEF Representative in Maldives. “For children and young people in Maldives, climate change is a direct threat to their schools, their health centers, and their very survival. Children and young people must be given center stage in all climate negotiations and decisions, and the world must accelerate action to reduce emissions, invest in climate adaptation, actively work with young people and provide children with climate education and green and blue skills.”
Maldives has the lowest terrain of any country in the world: four-fifths of the country’s land is less than one meter above sea level. Erosion of the shoreline is already a severe issue in 64 percent of the Maldivian islands, and much critical infrastructure for children and families, including many schools, hospitals and health centers, sit within only 100m of shorelines. The country is predicted to become uninhabitable as early as 2050, and disappear before the end of the century.
“Seeing the effects of climate change on my country firsthand has been devastating, especially the rising sea levels,” said Aishath Zeeba Hamid, 19 years old, from Male. “It is a constant reminder that my country is right at the forefront of danger. Further worldwide assistance and cooperation is required, not just for Maldives but all other small island nations suffering similar fates.”
Plastic pollution and a limited waste management system remain a major challenge in Maldives, with islands across the country left littered with trash, a significant portion of which are single-use plastics which end up in the ocean and inside marine life. According to the Ministry of Environment, Climate Change and Technology, every year, 104 million non-biodegradable plastic bags are imported into the Maldives.
Meanwhile, the archipelago suffers from severe water scarcity, with some islands requiring desalinated water to be shipped in by boat. Water insecurity is slated to increase the incidence of water and vector-borne diseases, destruction of ecosystems, and children’s access to sanitation facilities.
The private sector is increasingly being recognized as key to boosting climate resilience through innovative solutions, transfer of expertise, technology, and financing.
“To ensure private finance supports the shift to a low-carbon economy, every major financial decision will need to take climate change into account,” said Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Representative in Maldives.
Maldives has taken ambitious steps to respond to the climate crisis and has been playing an active role on the world stage for over more than a decade, including with the country now holding the Presidency of the United Nations General Assembly. Maldives committed to phasing out single use plastics by 2023 and net zero emissions by 2030, and is also actively supporting children and young people’s direct involvement in climate negotiations and decisions, especially within the context of COP26.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/152321-government-maldives-united-nations-urge-greater-action-address-devastating-impact-climate




Date: 13 October 2021
Title: Inauguration of the Reproductive Health Centre at Hulhumale’ Hospital
Content: 13 October 2021
This Centre, officially launched on the 13th of October 2021, was made possible through generous aid from the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT/AUSAID).  The Reproductive Health Centre will offer people-centred, youth-focused comprehensive sexual and reproductive health services spanning from conception, pregnancy, childbirth, newborn care, adolescent health, response to gender based violence and ageing population.
It is noteworthy that this centre provides essential reproductive health services to adolescents, particularly young women and girls, those with disabilities and other marginalised groups - ensuring that they are not forgotten during service provision. As the Maldives need to address the high unmet need for family planning as well as advocacy for SRH services to reach more young people, people centred services are an essential promise made by the national delegation during the Nairobi Summit of 2019, to reach the 2030 sustainable development goals and to attain the unfinished business of the programme of action of International Conference on Population and Development. As such, it is vital that we facilitate and expand SRH services in the future, ensuring that no one in the community is left behind. Sexual reproductive health is an essential element of progressive development and the right to bodily autonomy - especially for adolescents, young women and girls in planning out their own life path.
Covid-19 pandemic has reminded us that sexual reproductive health services are essential and must be prioritized even amidst humanitarian situations. This concerted effort led by the Hulhumale’ Hospital with support from UNFPA is a milestone under the National Strategic Action plan (SAP) and the road towards recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. UNFPA strives to support the government’s efforts to strengthen the sexual reproductive health programme in the Maldives, including providing technical support to building capacity of health professionals, public health workers and undertaking research. We require urgent policy advocacy and analysis to address the challenges to ensure those who are furthest left behind  are brought to the centre.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175730-inauguration-reproductive-health-centre-hulhumale%E2%80%99-hospital




Date: 12 October 2021
Title: Government of Maldives and UNDP, supported by Government of Japan formalize a new initiative to strengthen local productivity of agricultural produce in the Maldives
Content: 12 October 2021
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the Maldives, will partner with the Ministry of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture and the Ministry of Economic Development on this initiative, backed by the generous support of the Government of Japan committing a grant amount to the tune of USD 2.7 million (approximately 302 million Japanese Yen, equivalent to 41.7 million Maldivian Rufiyaa).
Today’s ceremony saw a contribution agreement signed between Japan and UNDP by Her Excellency Keiko Yanai, Ambassador of Japan to the Maldives and Mr. Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives. A project document was also signed by the ministers of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture and Economic Development together with the UNDP Resident Representative to seal the implementation plan which will last up to October 2024.
“This fund will allow the Maldives to increase its capacity to develop and diversify the agriculture sector at this very crucial time. It marks the beginning of a very historical journey towards food security of the Maldives and will make a huge positive impact on the lives of the people of Maldives working in the agriculture sector,” said Minister of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture, Dr. Hussain Rasheed Hassan, speaking at the signing ceremony held in Hulhumalé this morning.
The ‘Project for Developing Sustainable Agricultural Economy’ (PDSAE) will focus on enhancing food security in Maldives, and enable more entrepreneurs interested in the agricultural businesses to enter the sector, and facilitate secondary and tertiary production of related commodities, including foodstuff and textiles.
In relation to today’s signing, Minister of Economic Development, Uz. Fayyaz Ismail indicated that an important emphasis of the recovery initiatives is to create greater resiliency within the economy, and that the initiative would be an important step forward to re-energize the economy towards a more sustainable future; focusing on crucial elements such as food security, economic diversification and ensuring the continuity of MSMEs.
The PDSAE project will be centered around:
1.       Strengthening assistance to increase local farmer expertise in agriculture;
2.       Enhancing agricultural capacities and opportunities to ensure food security; and
3.       Enhancing support industries and value-added services to augment agro-businesses.
The Government of Japan has been actively contributing to global efforts to overcome COVID-19 impacts. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Japan has committed grants in the total value of approximately USD 8.5 million to the Maldives. This has included support to improve health services in atolls and regional hospitals across the Maldives, support to Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in agri-businesses affected by the pandemic and assisting the country in building a sustainable immunization supply chain system. In addition to these grants, Japan extended USD 47.5 million to the Government of Maldives as 'The COVID-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support Loan’, while 112,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured in Japan was donated to the country through the COVAX facility as part of Japan’s “Last One Mile Support”.
“The timing of this project is very opportune, given the prolonged COVID-19 pandemic, which has exposed the risks, fragilities and inequalities characterizing the global agri-food systems. And especially for the Maldives, where the pandemic has also heightened the importance of resilience, self-sufficiency and diversification, and the need to integrate sustainability in economic, social and environmental dimensions throughout our agro-food systems,” Ambassador of Japan to the Maldives, Keiko Yanai said, indicating hopes for the continuation of efforts towards building long-term strategic partnerships between all the stakeholders to enhance food security in the Maldives.
“Today’s signing is a concrete signal of our joint commitment to Build Forward Better. The seeds have been sown through phase I. Yet, COVID-19 is not a stand-alone event, it is a protracted crisis and calls for a sustained new formula of support. The new project ensures the doors remain wide open for those interested in the business to enter the agricultural sector and keep the wheels of opportunity in motion. So that more people can benefit. So that economic diversification can kick-in to complement known roads for economic recovery. UNDP remains committed to work with our partners and the people of Maldives to enrich the ecosystem of development in a way that it is multisectoral by design, with stronger value chains, and with ultimate gains on the last mile - accelerating progress on the Sustainable Development Goals,” said Enrico Gaveglia, UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives.
Together with UNDP, and the Ministry of Economic Development and Ministry of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture, the ‘Project for Developing Sustainable Agricultural Economy’ (PDSAE) will be implemented in partnership with Agro National Corporation (AgroNat), the Business Center Corporation (BCC) and Housing Development Corporation (HDC).
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175478-government-maldives-and-undp-supported-government-japan-formalize-new-initiative-strengthen




Date: 06 October 2021
Title: Joint Press Release - Signing of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework
Content: 06 October 2021
The Framework was signed by the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, His Excellency Ahmed Khaleel, on behalf of the Government of Maldives, and Ms. Catherine Haswell, UN Resident Coordinator on behalf of the United Nations. The signing was held in the presence of Minister of Foreign Affairs, His Excellency Abdulla Shahid, senior government officials, and senior officials of the UN Maldives Country Team.
The Government and the UN have been working jointly since January 2021 to formulate the UNSDCF in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders and partners. In response to development opportunities and challenges faced by the Maldives, and driven by extensive consultations, three overarching Strategic Priorities were identified, that encompass social, environmental and economic sustainability. Under these Strategic Priorities, four Outcome Results were also formulated, for which the United Nations Development System will focus its support on for the period 2022 – 2026.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, the Minister of Foreign Affairs noted that the Cooperation Framework is designed to contribute to the development priorities and agenda of the Government of the Republic of Maldives, as outlined in the 2019-2023 Strategic Action Plan and the National Resilience and Recovery (NRR) plan.
UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Catherine Haswell thanked all partners for their inputs and active engagement in designing an effective and impactful framework for UN support to Maldives for the next five years. She further expressed hope that the joint commitment of the UN and the Government will pave the way for Maldives to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and build a future that leaves no one behind.
The implementation of the Cooperation Framework will be coordinated through a High-Level Joint Steering Committee, co-chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the UN Resident Coordinator, and comprising of Government Institutions, and UN Agencies and Funds and Programmes with operational activities in the Maldives. The Joint Steering Committee will review progress annually and make recommendations and strategic adjustments to accelerate the achievement of the targets set forth in the Cooperation Framework.
Through joint efforts, the Government of Maldives and the UN hope to achieve significant progress in the Maldives’ journey to an inclusive, resilient, healthy, caring, tolerant and skilled society where all people meaningfully participate in, contribute to, and benefit equitably from sustainable cultural, economic, and social development and environmental protection, by 2026.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/150273-joint-press-release-signing-un-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework




Date: 03 October 2021
Title: New UNDP Resident Representative takes office
Content: 03 October 2021
In his new role, Mr. Gaveglia has the overall responsibility of the UN Development agency activities in the country; closely collaborating with national stakeholders, international partners and with the wider United Nations family to support Maldives’ national development priorities and the quest to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Mr. Gaveglia expressed his deep appreciation to the Government for the warm reception extended to him and reaffirmed UNDP’s continued commitment and support to the people of Maldives in achieving a development that balances social, economic and environmental sustainability. “UNDP has been a long-standing partner of the Maldives, and we remain committed to its people in all corners of the nation in these trying times when compound crises make the challenges ahead look arduous,” Mr. Gaveglia stated.
“UNDP maintains open its offer to support Maldives to create the conditions for inclusive, sustainable and thriving livelihoods, to strengthen sustainable resource management and climate action, and to anticipate the challenges of governance with robust and resilient institutions at all levels of public administration,” Mr. Gaveglia emphasized.
Minister Khaleel welcomed Mr. Gaveglia to the Maldives and expressed desire to deepen the government’s relationship with UNDP as the strongest development arm of the United Nations in the country. “The Government of Maldives is always ready to work with the UNDP team, and the team at Ministry of Foreign Affairs will provide all the support necessary for the UN Country Team to execute its duties and functions, ” Minister Khaleel said.
Mr. Gaveglia is a development professional with over 16 years of experience in the United Nations system, having served in leadership roles at UNDP in the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Cambodia and Sudan. During his illustrious tenure at UNDP, Mr. Gaveglia has offered his support to Governments, the UN system and UNDP in several capacities across regions, in aid of countries and offices in transformation and complex development settings - including crisis and post conflict. Mr. Gaveglia is a regular outposted resource of UNDP Bureau of Management, Crisis Bureau, an innovation advocate for the UNDP Asia-Pacific Regional Innovation Centre and has lived the last 11 years in the Asia-Pacific Region.
Prior to UNDP, Mr. Gaveglia worked for over five years with the European Union in the former regional delegation to India, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and the Maldives, as well as in the European Agency for Reconstruction in Montenegro and North Macedonia. He started his career as Lieutenant in the Italian Ministry of Defense in 1999. Mr. Gaveglia, an Italian national, holds a master’s degree in economics from the University of Florence, Italy.
At the ceremony, Mr. Gaveglia also discussed with the Minister about UNDP’s new Country Programme for the period 2022-2026, which mandates UNDP to work on a set of agreed development results in the country. He concluded by reiterating commitment to continue supporting the Government in delivering for people and planet, through the new Country Programme.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175477-new-undp-resident-representative-takes-office




Date: 29 September 2021
Title: Strengthening national emergency preparedness: Maldives participates in Virtual Simulation Exercise (SimEx) for Emergency Response held by WHO
Content: 29 September 2021
The simulation exercise was held to orient country focal points to effectively establish, expand and operate Health Emergency Operation Centers (HEOCs) for emergency response integrating operational support and logistics and Emergency Medical Team  Five participants from Ministry of Health Maldives attended the exercise, together with WHO’s National Professional Officer for Health Emergencies.
The objective of the SimEx was to teach participants to effectively expand and scale-up HEOC operations (integrating incident management system, and coordination with National Disaster Management Authority and other Emergency Operations Centers), provide an understanding of the practical use of the HEOC tool kit, identify operational support and logistics requirements for HEOC expansion, preparedness for outbreaks, management of donated supplies, maintaining COVID-19 supply chain, and coordinate and manage timely deployments of national and international emergency medical teams through HEOC.
The simulation exercise was based on a fictional country called “Globalland” and participants were asked to play the role of the Ministry of Health, familiarizing themselves with the country context, concepts of HEOC, operations, logistics, support and coordination of the Health Surge Team. WHO created this exercise to test out the plans and capabilities in a realistic environment to gain in-depth experience, which can only be achieved through practice.
Participants from Ministry of Health brought their experience and expertise from the ongoing pandemic response in the Maldives with the support from WHO. The team worked together to conceptualize and plan the structure of the HEOC and the functions including planning for staff capacities, reporting formats, data systems, communications and financing the response.
The simulation exercise and experience has helped to identify gaps and areas for opportunity, which ultimately aids in assessing and improving Maldives readiness capacity, which will contribute to an effective and joint global response to any emergency.

Despite the deterrents caused due to the COVID-19 pandemic, WHO continues to effectively work with Member States through different platforms and modalities to improve their operational readiness and handle the initial impact of emergencies and subsequent recovery. In addition to capacity building, WHO’s work supports countries in meeting their own commitments under the International Health Regulations to build capacity to constructively handle any public health event of concern.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175646-strengthening-national-emergency-preparedness-maldives-participates-virtual-simulation




Date: 19 September 2021
Title: WHO supports Quality of Care in Maldives’ Health Service delivery
Content: 19 September 2021
Improving the quality of health services requires strong national direction from governments, focused sub-national support, and action at the health facility level. Moreover, Quality needs to be continually measured and monitored to drive improvement, which relies on accurate, timely and actionable data.
In line with the national priorities and global development goals, the National Heath Master Plan re-affirms ensuring availability of quality assured care, responsive to changing health needs of the population. With WHO’s support, Ministry of Health Maldives is conducting activities linked to the improving quality of care. This includes health facility assessment and training of quality focal points using the Maldives Healthcare Quality Standard (MHQS).
The Maldives Healthcare Quality Standards (MHQS) was developed with WHO’s technical assistance in 2018. Health facilities vary considerably in terms of type of services delivered and expected infrastructure, resources, process for such services. Therefore, the quality standards are developed to measure health facility adherence to standards and measure their overall performance. For each of the set of standards, there are measurable indicators assigned to it which are specific attributes of the standard that is reviewed for compliance. Based on the scoring, guidance will be provided by Quality Assurance and Regulatory Division (QARD), Ministry of Health to the health facility for taking actions for performance improvements.
Health Facilities assessment using the MHQS mobile application is being conducted across six atolls (six health facilities) to measure health facility performance and understand areas requiring improvement. As the Health Facility Regulating Body; Quality Assurance and Regulatory Division of Ministry of Health is conducting external assessment site visits with doctors from public and private hospitals through WHO’s support.
Concurrently, WHO is also supporting the Training of Trainers for MHQS to build capacity of the Quality Focal Points to conduct the internal assessments (at facility level) using MHQS at their respective health facilities and report the findings to Quality Assurance and Regulatory Division of Ministry of Health (QARD). An estimated 40 participants will be trained, which includes all Quality focal points from atoll hospitals and doctors from public and private health settings. The training of trainer’s sessions are being conducted virtually with WHO’s support.

These quality improvement initiatives improve healthcare by identifying problems, implementing interventions, building capacity, and monitoring and maintaining improvements over time, enabling to reduce patient deaths and ICU stays. Moreover, by minimizing hospital readmission rate allows more hospital beds to be available for critical patients. This is crucial in large-scale emergency or medical event, such as the ongoing pandemic to ensure the safety of all patients and staff and to aids in effective use of limited resources to provide emergency medical care that is safe and quality assured. WHO remains committed to provide technical support to Ministry of Health in efforts to ensure high quality in healthcare system.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175643-who-supports-quality-care-maldives%E2%80%99-health-service-delivery




Date: 23 August 2021
Title: WHO facilitates Government of Japan’s donation of AstraZeneca vaccine to the Maldives through COVAX
Content: 23 August 2021
22 August 2021 – The Government of Japan donated 112,000 doses of AstraZeneca (AZ) vaccine manufactured in Japan to the Maldives through the COVAX facility.
The vaccine shipment was transported to the Maldives this morning and handed over to the Minister of Health His Excellency Ahmed Naseem by the Ambassador of Japan to Maldives Her Excellency Keiko Yanai, in the presence of senior officials from WHO, UNRC, UNICEF and Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
COVAX is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to pandemic vaccines co-led by the World Health Organization (WHO); GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance; and, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) with UNICEF leading in logistics. In preparation for the vaccine’s arrival; WHO Maldives has led and facilitated multiple documentations including EUL support for AZ Japan donation, providing necessary guidance, trainings, risk communication, supervision and cold chain support for COVID-19 vaccine roll out in the country.
The vaccine support is expected to contribute to the Government of Maldives’ efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and to save people’s lives by continuing vaccination across the country, in line with the National Vaccine Deployment Plan and in support of the Government’s goal of completing the vaccination for the entire eligible population.
WHO continues to support the Ministry of Health Maldives; providing support in various areas including lab capacity enhancement, rollout of vaccinations, capacity building, human resources, development of policies and technical guidance to strengthen the COVID-19 response in the country.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175642-who-facilitates-government-japan%E2%80%99s-donation-astrazeneca-vaccine-maldives-through-covax




Date: 11 August 2021
Title: New information materials launched to enhance support for victims and witnesses of crime
Content: 11 August 2021
Malé, 11 August, 2021: The Prosecutor General’s Office (PGO) has launched six new handbooks that provide vital information on support and services available for victims and witnesses of crime. The handbooks cover the services of the Witness and Victim Support Unit (WVSU) of the PGO, as well as general topics such as prosecution processes and juvenile justice.
“Lack of public confidence and trust remains one of the biggest challenges faced by the Criminal Justice System in the Maldives. Reasons for this trust deficit include lack of information about how the system functions. I hope these handbooks will provide the platform to regain public trust and strengthen it. It will help the public to understand the everyday workings of the Criminal Justice System and how it works to provide security and justice for all,” Prosecutor General Uz. Hussein Shameem said, speaking at the launch.
WVSU, originally Victim Support Unit, was established by the PGO with support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the Maldives. The Unit provides specialized information, support, and referral service to victims of crime, witnesses for the prosecution, and their immediate families in matters dealt with by the Prosecutor General’s Office.
“Victims of crime need information and support as they navigate their way through a difficult and emotional process following their victimization. These handbooks encompass the general overview of the processes in reference to prosecution functions within the Criminal Justice System.  We hope that this will assist victims in understating their role and legal rights as well as ensuring a meaningful participation with in the Criminal Justice System,” said Deputy Director General, Witness and Victim Assessment Unit Siyanath Hashim.
As part of the efforts to enhance the quality of the services rendered by WVSU and to increase awareness of the victims and witnesses regarding their role in the criminal trial, the handbooks launched today were developed by PGO in collaboration with UNDP, with the support of the Australian Government’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT).
Australian High Commissioner to Maldives, David Holly, said “Access to justice, including support for victims and witnesses, is at the foundation of a strong legal and democratic system. Australia is very pleased to support the PGO and UNDP to ensure vital information on the justice system is available to all Maldivians.”
The six handbooks developed are:
•           Book 1: Role of Witness
•           Book 2: Dealing with Abuse and Trauma
•           Book 3: Expert Witness
•           Book 4: Guide to public on prosecution process and redresses available.
•           Book 5: Juvenile Justice
•           Book 6: Alternative to Prosecution and Plea Bargain System
It is envisioned that the handbooks will help contribute towards the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, through the attainment of the following objectives:
1. Enhance the quality and the effectiveness of the services rendered by WVSU of the Prosecutor General’s Office to the victims and witnesses of crime, including professional/expert witnesses.
2. Enhance the experience of the victims and witnesses of the crimes in their contact with the criminal justice system by keeping them well informed of the processes involved.
3. Strengthen the child-centered decision making in cases involving child offenders by making intelligible the expectation and the role of the child and the guardian in the prosecution stage.
4. Create public awareness on important topics such as juvenile justice, role of the witnesses, alternatives to prosecution and the route to enter into a plea agreement.
5. Enhance overall access to justice through raised awareness, particularly regarding the redresses available for victims within the justice system.
“The principles of the rule of law – equality, equity, inclusion, rights, laws and institutions – are embedded throughout the 2030 Agenda. This initiative contributes specifically towards Sustainable Development Goal 16 on Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. In keeping with the commitment to Leave No One Behind, UNDP Maldives looks forward to continuing our support to the initiative to ensure that such significant information is accessible to all,” said UNDP Resident Representative ad interim, Vera Hakim.
Following the official launch, the handbooks are planned to be disseminated via all PGO branches nationwide, as well as during awareness programs, meetings and trainings conducted by the WVSU and PGO staff, including sessions on witness preparations and sessions for parents of juvenile offenders in Malé and in the Atolls. A digital copy of all handbooks will also be available on PGO website and other relevant platforms.
Download the handbooks at:
•           Being a witness: http://www.pgoffice.gov.mv/pdf-preview-dhv?download=32
•           Dealing with abuse and trauma: http://www.pgoffice.gov.mv/pdf-preview-dhv?download=33
•           Expert Evidence: http://www.pgoffice.gov.mv/pdf-preview-dhv?download=34
•           Juvenile Justice: http://www.pgoffice.gov.mv/pdf-preview-dhv?download=35
•           Witness and Victim Support: http://www.pgoffice.gov.mv/pdf-preview-dhv?download=36
•           Plea Bargain: http://www.pgoffice.gov.mv/pdf-preview-dhv?download=37
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175473-new-information-materials-launched-enhance-support-victims-and-witnesses-crime




Date: 11 August 2021
Title: Maldives receives Pfizer vaccines and supplies through COVAX, donated by the United States
Content: 11 August 2021
A team led by the Office of the President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Health, Representatives from the US Government and the United Nations, received the vaccines and supplies on the tarmac at Velana International Airport.
The Minister of Health, Honourable Ahmed Naseem noted that, “with this batch of vaccines, we can now start vaccinating children between the ages of 12 and 17, which would undoubtedly add renewed momentum to our vaccination efforts. I am confident that today’s donation will not only expand our vaccine eligible population thereby decrease the infection rate and fatalities but will also boost overall economic recovery efforts”.
Currently, Sinopharm vaccines are being used to administer the second dose and AstraZeneca vaccines are being used to administer first and second doses to all residents above the age of 18. With a brief delay in the second jab to those who received the Covishield vaccine due to global vaccine supply shortages, the Government of Maldives had resumed the drive to fully vaccinate residents on 4 July 2021.
As of 10 August 2021, around 80% of the eligible population has received the first dose and almost 70% received the second, making the country one of the few which has been able to achieve this impressive result, coming very close to vaccinating everyone eligible against COVID-19.
UNICEF Representative Marjan Montazemi stated that “We are delighted about the news of Maldives receiving additional doses of vaccines, thanks to the generous donation of the United States Government through the COVAX facility.  The Maldives has received praise for its inclusive COVID-19 vaccination program which ensure every resident irrespective of nationality receives vaccination against the Coronavirus disease. Surely the timely administration of the vaccines combined with communication and community engagement will go a long way in ensuring that all eligible populations are duly covered and with that children having access to learning at school”.
“In preparation for the Pfizer vaccine; provision of technical guidance including facilitation of EUL, assistance for facilitation of multiple documents, and extensive cold chain support paired with the required trainings and capacity building have been conducted with WHO’s support, whilst providing a supportive supervisory role in the vaccine roll-out process from the very start.” said Dr Nazneen Anwar, WHO Representative. “We are optimistic that the new vaccine shipment donated by the Government of the United States of America through COVAX will be an added asset to bridge any existing gaps to reach the unreached, and increase the total population’s immunization coverage to protect the population, reduce disease severity and hospitalization from SARS-CoV-2 infection. As a trusted partner, WHO will continue to support the Government of Maldives’ lead in the vaccine roll-out. We also acknowledge and applaud the country’s steadfast steps towards recovery following the COVID-19 pandemic.”
The UN Resident Coordinator Catherine Haswell noted that, “the UN welcomes the arrival of a new shipment of vaccines in Maldives, donated by the US Government and facilitated by the COVAX facility. Vaccines are safe, effective and our best hope to end the pandemic. The UN stands ready to support efforts by the Government to provide Pfizer vaccines to children above 12 years of age as well as pregnant women. Together, we can ensure safety and protection of all, and recognize the great strides made in the Maldives in reaching 70% of the population being fully vaccinated as of today”.
The COVID-19 pandemic is far from over, and the consequences and impact of COVID-19 go beyond public health risks associated with a pandemic. From what is observed globally, and, in the Maldives, national recovery efforts need to consider the various but interconnected socioeconomic impacts on access to essential services such as education, learning and health services as well as mental health issues faced by children and adults.
COVAX, the vaccine equity scheme, co-led by Gavi, CEPI and WHO with UNICEF as an implementing partner, ensures that safe, effective COVID-19 vaccines are available to all countries around the world to help end the pandemic as quickly as possible.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175498-maldives-receives-pfizer-vaccines-and-supplies-through-covax-donated-united-states




Date: 21 July 2021
Title: New TIWB Programme Launched in Partnership with MIRA and UNDP
Content: 21 July 2021
Tax Inspectors Without Borders (TIWB) launched a capacity building program for tax auditors in the Maldives on 29 July 2021, in partnership with Maldives Inland Revenue Authority (MIRA) and UNDP. This is the second such programme by TIWB in the Maldives. This tourism/hospitality-focused programme aims to enhance tax audit methods related to transferpricing issues and build capacity in the Maldives.
The programme will help combat tax evasion and avoidance, build taxpayer compliance in the tourism and hospitality sector, and foster sustained disaster risk management for the achievement of Sustainable Development Gorals in the Maldives.
Read press release by MIRA
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175471-new-tiwb-programme-launched-partnership-mira-and-undp




Date: 07 July 2021
Title: Support Continues to Digitalization Efforts of the Maldives Judiciary to bridge the gap between the justice system and communities
Content: 07 July 2021
Malé, 7 July, 2021: The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the Maldives, with the generous support of the British High Commission in the Maldives today presented the Department of Judicial Administration with digital equipment for the Magistrate Courts, to facilitate vital judicial services work remotely and increase access to justice for communities.
“Providing judicial services online since the early days of the pandemic was an impressive achievement by the Department of Judicial Administration. They say justice delayed is justice denied. Seeing the positive steps taken, the UK was pleased to provide additional assistance to further extend the reach of the rule of law throughout the islands and atolls of Maldives,” said the British High Commissioner to the Maldives, Her Excellency Caron  Röhsler, speaking at the handover ceremony.
The latest handover of the ICT assets is part of UNDP and partners’ continued support to the digitalization process of the Judiciary. Since the onset of the pandemic, UNDP has provided digitalization equipment to the Apex Courts in Male’ and to key justice sector stakeholders such as the Prosecutor General's Office and the Attorney General’s Office. From September 2020 to December 2020 alone, more than 11,000 online hearings were facilitated by the Judiciary with these new technological solutions in place. Today’s support will assist the magistrate courts to significantly multiply the number of court hearings from last year, and continue providing judicial services to remote communities at a time like this with COVID-19 restrictions in place.
“UNDP is proud to support the digitalization efforts of the judiciary, with the goal to ensure that justice institutions are responsive to the rights and needs of all populations during this pandemic and beyond. It is important to consider the access to justice services that needs to be provided for hard to reach and vulnerable populations, including access to legal aid and information, to comprehensive services for victims and survivors of violence, to protection of migrants and displaced populations. This is a vital step towards increasing public confidence and belief in the judiciary and justice sector as a whole,” said Vera Hakim, UNDP Resident Representative ad interim in the Maldives, handing over the assets to the Judiciary.
The Asset Transfer Letter to the Department of Judicial Administration was received by Uza. Aishath Rizna, Chief Judicial Administrator, at the handover event presided by Chief Guest Honorable Uza. Hisaan Hussain, Chairperson of Judicial Services Commission.
In her remarks Chief Judicial Administrator, Aishath Rizna, extended her sincere gratitude and appreciation on behalf of the judiciary for the continued support provided by UNDP. “Contribution and support in the form of ICT equipment from UNDP will help to strengthen the ability to continue and further develop and enhance and improve access to justice across the judiciary. It also facilitates continuous judicial education which has ensured training and knowledge sharing programs for the judges during the pandemic in addition to providing access to justice services remotely,” Uz. Rizna said, speaking at the ceremony.
The digital equipment handed over to the Magistrate Court today was made possible with the generous support of the British High Commission through the Conflict, Stability and Security Fund programme in the Maldives. Along with the High Commission, UNDP acknowledged the continued support by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office towards the development of Maldives and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for the country.
Decentralizing services for island communities are a fundamental step to achieving the SDGs for the Maldives. UNDP and partners’ commitment to digital disruption initiatives for the justice sector ensures the achievement of the Goals - especially Goal 10 on Reduced Inequalities, and Goal 16 on Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions, as Maldives Builds Forward Better from crises.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175472-support-continues-digitalization-efforts-maldives-judiciary-bridge-gap-between-justice




Date: 20 June 2021
Title: Development Planning Handbook for Community Development Launched
Content: 20 June 2021
The virtual launching ceremony of the Development Planning Handbook to assist community development leaders was held on June 20, 2021.
UNDP in partnership with Local Government Authority (LGA) with support from Government of UK, revised the Local Development Planning Handbook for local councils to facilitate gender responsive planning at the local level and to ensure that the development planning aligns with the SDGs, and the strategies and actions set out by other national planning frameworks. The project also supported to build the capacity of LGA staff on delivering trainings on gender responsive planning to the newly elected councilors.
With the new councilors now sworn into office, LGA has been organizing virtual trainings on this for the local councils who will be responsible for formulating the five-year development plans for their islands within the next three months. The handbook that would serve as a guide during the formulation process of developing plans for their communities.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175470-development-planning-handbook-community-development-launched




Date: 01 June 2021
Title: UN Network on Migration in the Maldives Formally Launched
Content: 01 June 2021
Foreign Secretary H.E. Abdul Ghafoor Mohamed officiated as the chief guest. The overall aim of the Network is to facilitate effective, timely and coordinated UN systemwide actions supporting the GoM in implementing the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration (GCM), in accordance with the national priorities. “Protecting the human rights of migrants is essential to Maldives’ socio-economic development, while securing the well-being of all its residents. With the launching of the UN Network on Migration, the audience can expect a strong, united and efficient response from the global UN family.
An effective migration approach is a key element, particularly for a small country with big economic ambitions, in all policy making and efforts towards achieving sustainable development.” said UN Resident Coordinator (UNRC) Catherine Haswell during her opening remarks at the launch. The Maldives has the largest proportional population of migrants in South Asia, with roughly 200,000 to 250,000 international migrants, constituting roughly one third of the resident population. Undocumented migrants in the Maldives are an increasingly vulnerable and marginalized population, with issues ranging from labour exploitation, trafficking, access to health and other basic rights, discrimination, and social stigma.
The COVID-19 pandemic has further highlighted underlying challenges. In 2018, the Maldives supported the United Nations General Assembly resolution 73/195 endorsing the GCM as a multilateral framework that complements its national development commitments. The GoM actively contributed to the consultations during the development process of the GCM, and since then has continued its expressed interest towards the implementation, follow-up and review. “The complexities of international migration are very real. No single country can find solutions to these shared challenges. International cooperation is the way forward…We 2 look forward to meaningful engagement within the UN Network on Migration, which I believe will be a coordinated, collective, and collaborative force for good, one that values inclusivity and unity.” stated Minister of Foreign Affairs Abdulla Shahid in a video message shared during the event. To mark the formal launch of the Network, two high-level panels were organized with representatives from the GoM, UN agencies and civil society. The first panel discussion highlighted the GCM country priority objectives, and the ongoing efforts to regularise migrant workers, voluntary return, data management and enforcing the guidelines on employer obligations towards migrant workers.
The second panel addressed the issue of human-trafficking and well-being of migrant workers. The need for sustained efforts to train and develop capacity of frontline workers in border management and law enforcement, expanding awareness on human-trafficking and forms of assistance available to the survivours of trafficking emerged as key themes. In this regard, panelists from the GoM also highlighted the recent establishment of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Office (TIP) and the work of National Anti-Human Trafficking Steering Committee (NAHTSC), as key to achieving better multi-agency coordination, and welcomed the continued support of the Network. Under the aegis of the UNRC, IOM serves as the Coordinator and Secretariat of all constituent parts of the Network. “I am positive that this launch event will create awareness about the UN Network on Migration in the Maldives among all relevant stakeholders,” said Sarat Dash, Coordinator of the Network in the Maldives and IOM Chief of Mission for Sri Lanka and Maldives. While the Network is officially launched now, it has been active since July 2020. So far, 50 country Networks have been established around the world. The Network in the Maldives represents seventh in the Asia-Pacific region, joining Bangladesh, Timor-Leste, Philippines, Cambodia, Thailand and Sri Lanka.
A recording of the launch is available at: https://www.facebook.com/iom.srilanka.75/videos/950419515708581
The video produced by the Network in the Maldives for the launch can be accessed here: https://twitter.com/IOMAsiaPacific/status/13992766885051310093
UN entities currently part of the UN Network on Migration in the Maldives include, , World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), International Labour Organization (ILO), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), IOM and Asian Development Bank (ADB) with observer status.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175967-un-network-migration-maldives-formally-launched




Date: 27 April 2021
Title: High-Level Joint Steering Committee of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework convened the virtual validation meeting of the new UNSDCF 2022-2026.
Content: 27 April 2021
The High-Level Joint Steering Committee of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) convened the virtual validation meeting of the new Cooperation Framework 2022-2026. This framework is the blueprint outlining the UN Development System’s collective priorities and responses to assist the Maldives to address national priorities and challenges in achieving the 2030 Agenda in the next five years.
The Government and the UN have been working jointly since January 2021 to formulate the UNSDCF through a series of visioning exercises and extensive consultations with a wide range stakeholders and partners. Co-chaired by Dr. Hala Hameed, Secretary, Multilateral, Ministry of Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Government, and Ms. Catherine Haswell, UN Resident Coordinator in Maldives on behalf of the UN, the main aim of today’s meeting was to provide an opportunity for final discussions and validation of the UNSDCF.
Speaking at the meeting, the Government co-chair, Secretary, Multilateral, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Hala Hameed, expressed appreciation to the United Nations Country Team for the excellent work during the past four months to prepare the Cooperation Framework. She also expressed gratitude to the Government offices and other stakeholders for their meaningful contribution to the process. She noted the importance of national ownership of the Framework to reflect the priorities and aspirations of the Government.
UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Catherine Haswell thanked all stakeholders for their inputs to design an effective and impactful UN support to the Maldives, and active participation in all steps of the process to design the framework for UN support from 2022-2026. She also expressed hope that validation of the document and the joint commitment of the UN and Government will pave the way for Maldives to build back better from the pandemic and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The UNSDCF High Level Steering Committee comprises of members from The President’s Office; Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure; Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Economic Development; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Environment; Ministry of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment; Ministry of Education; Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services; the Attorney-General’s Office; and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The United Nations in Maldives was represented by the UN Resident Coordinator, IFAD, ILO, IOM, UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, UNOPS and WHO.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/125739-high-level-joint-steering-committee-united-nations-sustainable-development-cooperation




Date: 15 April 2021
Title: UNFPA supports safe pregnancy and delivery for all in the midst of the pandemic
Content: 15 April 2021
As part of the Covid-19 response,  the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) together with the Government of Australia is supporting capacity development initiatives of reproductive health service providers. In order to minimise the impacts of service disruption to maternal and child health care, UNFPA partnered with Maldives National University to train health service providers.
The disruption of services on an already overstretched health system and the deviation of resources from essential sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services are expected to increase the risk of maternal and child morbidity and mortality.
Before Covid-19 pandemic,  the majority of pregnant mothers travelled to the capital Male and other urban settings to attend to antenatal care, delivery and other reproductive health services. With the onset of Covid-19 in Male, the epicentre of the community transmissions, and the imposed restrictions forced the women to change the delivery plans elsewhere.
Quick action by UNFPA Maldives brought together Maldives National University, health professionals at the island and atoll health facilities to refresh their skills and helped many health systems maintain or restore access to essential health services, including contraceptives.
Thanks to Safe Motherhood Foundation and Laerdal Global Health’s  creative efforts – such as using Safe Delivery App helped undertake the training both theoretical and practical to maintain skills required to function during Covid-19 pandemic.
Today UNFPA hands over the training materials - mannequins and models - provided with generous support from Laerdal Global Health  and DFAT Australia  to continue the practical skills enhancement of the nurses and midwives and other health care professionals  to take care of pregnant women during pregnancy, delivery and postpartum as well as family planning services.
UNFPA in the Maldives continues to support the Government of the Republic of Maldives, to ensure the delivery of a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175731-unfpa-supports-safe-pregnancy-and-delivery-all-midst-pandemic




Date: 17 March 2021
Title: Operationalizing Integrated National Financing Framework (INFF) in the Maldives - Stakeholders Meeting
Content: 17 March 2021
The Government of Maldives and the United Nations in the Maldives convened the virtual Stakeholders’ Meeting, under the global Joint SDG Fund project “Operationalization of an Integrated National Finance Framework (INFF) in the Maldives”. The two year (July 2020 – June 2022) joint programme is being led by the Ministry of Finance with relevant government ministries, with UNDP, UNICEF, WHO and UNFPA.
The programme is the first joint UN initiative which has been launched in the Maldives since 2018. It is a strategic approach, to supporting the Government to make progress on achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the country, by 2030. With just 10 years left, and the socioeconomic impacts of COVID-19 in the Maldives, innovations in the way that countries plan, and finance sustainable development is critical.
At a value of US$ 1.4 million, this initiative will anchor climate action and a gender responsive and equity -focused social sector at the heart of the national financing agenda, to ensure that no one is left behind. In turn, more sustainable financing for these sectors should come online, and generate long-term development benefits for Maldivians.
The main objectives of the virtual meeting were to:
Speaking at the event, the Minister of Finance H.E. noted that the programme encompasses the timely operationalization of holistic and integrated financing strategies that will transform the development financing framework of the country, anchoring climate finance with comprehensive and equitable social service delivery. He further stated, “I believe this is an essential initiative fully aligned with the Government’s immediate priorities as we walk the path of inclusive recovery leaving no one behind as we have pledged together.”
The UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Catherine Haswell highlighted the importance of working across sectors to channel resources and support efforts more efficiently to recover better from the COVID-19 pandemic. The UNRC reaffirmed UN support to Maldives efforts to operationalize the INFF and enhance coherence amongst partners to move from funding to financing and create a better, more sustainable future for the people of Maldives.
The Head of the global Joint SDG Fund, Ms. Lisa Kurbiel stated that the Fund is an innovative instrument, designed to incentivize transformative policy shifts, and stimulate the strategic investments required to get the world back on track to achieve the 2030 Agenda. She further noted that this is the only fund of its kind, solely focused on SDG financing across the UN Development System, stating that “we would like to see ourselves as a catalyst, where we can engage and attract much larger financial flows to countries like the Maldives.”
Convened by the National INFF Oversight Committee, the Stakeholders’ Meeting was attended by the global UN Joint SDG Fund donors, development partners, and International Financing Institutions, project partners from the public and private sectors, and the Government of counterparts.
As Maldives continues its fight to overcome the global COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Finance and the United Nations in the Maldives remain committed to consolidate knowledge and expertise available towards one key goal to create a resilient and sustainable future for Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/122199-operationalizing-integrated-national-financing-framework-inff-maldives-stakeholders-meeting




Date: 15 March 2021
Title: WHO Helps Maldives Build Laboratory Capacity to test COVID-19
Content: 15 March 2021
Maldives can now test COVID-19 samples in its laboratories and no longer needs to ship them out of the country.  The testing capacity built with WHO support is critical for rapidly detecting and rolling out timely response to COVID-19 cases.
Currently nearly 700 samples can be tested every day, and the capacity is being scaled up further and expanded beyond Male to atolls.
Even before the Maldives got its first case of COVID-19, WHO worked closely with the Ministry of Health to strategically prioritize strengthening and expanding the laboratory capacities and optimizing laboratory functions and services.
"WHO continues to be a  prominent partner in supporting development of the health sector of the Maldives. Strengthening health laboratories has been one key support area among others. The recent support provided to do the first ever COVID-19 test in the Maldives, continued testing, and expanding testing capacity in the regions of the country are notable and invaluable assistance in this long standing partnership," said HE Abdulla Ameen, Minister of Health for Maldives.
Anticipating a rise in cases, WHO and the ministry focused on training laboratory staff in testing protocol, coordinating quality assurance, ensuring availability of enough lab kits and ramping up capacity at the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital (IGMH), which is at the forefront of the pandemic response.
WHO has been focused on development in the field of diagnostics, one of the most critical factors in effectively dealing with COVID-19 cases. As early as end February 2020, WHO had introduced RT-PCR (Real time; Reverse Transcriptase- Polymerase Chain Reaction), a test that ensured high level of accuracy and minimal chance of missing any case of infection.
As a result, within weeks of the outbreak, Maldives could test and diagnose more than 700 cases a day. This was a significant milestone for the country, given the importance of timely and quality testing in a fast-evolving pandemic situation like COVID-19 with the added risk of community transmission and an overwhelmed public health situation.
In another step to enhance laboratory capacity, the laboratory of Maldives Police Forensic Services was strengthened for RT-PCR Testing and logistics chain, sample collection and referral carriers were also put in place.
“Recognizing ‘testing’ as potential game changer in Maldives’ preparedness and response to COVID19 outbreak; WHO facilitated timely transfer of knowledge and technology to the laboratory in Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Male’ City, actually ahead of the first diagnosed COVID19 case,” said Dr Arvind Mathur, WHO Representative in the Maldives.
“As a trusted and responsive technical partner of Government and people of Maldives; WHO is supporting further expansion of lab testing capacities in the country,” he added.
WHO and the Ministry of Health have begun preparations to expand laboratory capacity beyond Male to other atolls. WHO is working to establish RT-PCR testing capacity in two regional hospitals.  The physical space and structure are being put in place as per WHO guidelines and the training of lab technicians from these atolls has already begun at IGMH.
Maldives was able to build laboratory capacities in a timely manner because of early actions by Hon Health Minister and at the highest government level Maldives President, HE Mr Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, took several initiatives, including the establishment of the National Emergency Operations Centre (NEOC) to address the pandemic and seeking WHO support to strengthen the country’s laboratories, in addition to procuring and streamlining the most critical aspects of the pandemic – detection, testing, tracing, isolation and treatment.
Joint efforts by WHO and Ministry of Health, proactive measures and critical technology transfer by WHO to strengthen laboratories have helped Maldives manage COVID-19 infections. Going forward, medical teams and labs will be even better equipped to learn from their initial experience and continue to ensure speedy identification of cases and their treatment as per protocols.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/116412-who-helps-maldives-build-laboratory-capacity-test-covid-19




Date: 10 March 2021
Title: The Government of Japan commits to strengthen Maldives Cold Chain Capacity for Vaccine Management through UNICEF Maldives
Content: 10 March 2021
Malé, March 10, 2021 – The Government of Japan has committed USD 1,032,719 equivalent to MVR 15,924,527 to UNICEF Maldives to assist the Government of Maldives to continue building a sustainable immunization supply chain system. The Maldives is one of 25 countries in Southeast and Southwest Asia and Pacific Island region that the Government of Japan is supporting with cold chain equipment as “Last One Mile Support” to ensure vaccination through UNICEF. This will complement efforts of the COVAX Facility.
The components under this financial assistance include:
UNICEF Maldives has been an integral partner in the national response to the COVID-19 pandemic. It has been supporting the Government of Maldives with public communication and engagement around demand generation and addressing vaccine hesitancy for the COVID-19 vaccines including public advocacy, community mobilisation and training sessions for key partners as well as strengthening immunization cold chain systems through procurement of key equipment and provision of technical expertise.
Through this assistance, UNICEF Maldives will be able to work even more closely with the Ministry of Health and Health Protection Agency to ensure that the strong Immunization Supply Chains Management (ISCM) systems are in place and ready to receive, store and roll-out the COVID-19 vaccination program effectively.
The Government of Japan has been actively contributing to global efforts to overcome COVID-19. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Government of Japan has committed grants in the total value of approximately USD 7.5 million to the Maldives, namely:
In addition to these grants, USD 47.5 million was extended to the Government of Maldives as 'The COVID-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support Loan’.
The Government of Japan hopes that this assistance will enhance swift distribution of vaccines and ensure the Government’s inclusive approach to providing free and equitable access to the COVID-19 vaccines not only for Maldivians but also for all people reside in the Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175637-government-japan-commits-strengthen-maldives-cold-chain-capacity-vaccine-management-through




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: COVID-19 vaccines shipped by COVAX arrived in Maldives
Content: 08 March 2021
COVAX shipped 12,000 doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. The arrival in Male’ City marks the first vaccine delivery to the Maldives by the COVAX Facility in its unprecedented effort to deliver at least two billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines by the end of 2021. This consignment is part of the COVAX allocation of 113,850 vaccine doses to the Maldives that the COVAX Facility will deliver in batches in 2021. With approximately, 35 percent of these vaccines expected to be delivered by May 2021.
“Maldives has received acclaim for its inoculation drive internationally, with more than 145,768 people receiving their first dose by the end of 6 March 2021. One of this administration’s key policies is to provide fair and equitable access to the COVID-19 vaccines for all the people living in the Maldives – Maldivian or otherwise" said Minister of State for Health, Dr Shah Abdulla Mahir.
Carmen Van Heese, OIC for Representative, Maldives noted that, “the arrival of the COVAX supplied vaccines contribute to Maldives’ efforts to vaccinate those at high risk of exposure and those who are most vulnerable to developing severe illness from COVID-19. UNICEF is committed to working with the Government of Maldives in its outstanding efforts in ensuring that the most vulnerable are reached”.
"The ACT-Accelerator partnership, launched by WHO and partners, has supported the fastest, most coordinated, and successful global effort in history to develop tools to fight COVID-19. Its vaccine pillar - COVAX – aimed to and delivered COVID-19 vaccines at a record time and promoted fair and equitable access to all,” said Dr Shushil Dev Pant, Acting WHO Representative to Maldives, “All vaccines supplied through COVAX have received WHO EUL status and one of the best to fight against COVID-19. The vaccines delivered today and in future from COVAX will support the current momentum of vaccination and increase the reach of this life saving tool to protect the most vulnerable.”
The COVAX Facility is generously funded by partner governments, including the Governments of Australia, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Qatar, the United States and the European Commission as well as foundations and corporations. A full list of COVAX donor partners and pledges is available at: https://www.gavi.org/sites/default/files/covid/covax/COVAX-AMC-Donors-T…
The Maldives had received 100,000 syringes and 1,000 safety boxes for COVID-19 vaccinations from the COVAX Facility on 23 February from UNICEF’s humanitarian warehouse in Dubai as part of the first wave of COVID-19-related syringe shipments.
UNICEF has been supporting the Government of Maldives with public communication around demand generation for the COVID-19 vaccines including public advocacy, community mobilisation and training sessions for key partners; as well as strengthen immunization cold chain systems through procurement of key equipment and provision of technical expertise.
WHO continues to provide all necessary technical support to COVID-19 vaccine roll-out in the country and is actively engaged in all aspects of the COVID-19 vaccine deployment. This includes support provided in the development of the National Vaccine Deployment Plan, facilitation of the country’s applications to COVAX facility and enabling NRA for regulatory and vaccine approval process.  It has provided relevant training to health professionals and policy makers. The support provided in the country’s cold chain system, including deployment to a majority of islands, such as walk-in coolers, walk-in freezers and deep freezers contribute to the capacity of vaccine management for the next decade.
This shipment of vaccines will be a critical contribution to the National Deployment and Vaccination Plan, and the Government’s inclusive approach which includes the free vaccination for all people resident in the Maldives, regardless of their citizenship or legal status. Government of India’s contribution of 200,000 vaccines have already helped launch the vaccination campaign in the Maldives and to date, 145,768 people (around 36 percent of the target population) have been vaccinated.
For several months, COVAX partners have been supporting governments and partners in readiness efforts, in preparation for this moment.
The United Nations system in the Maldives is committed to working with the Government of Maldives in the pandemic response to ensure that no one is left behind. Supporting the vaccination of the eligible population through COVAX will go a long way to restoring normalcy, addressing the attrition of social and economic gains and paving the way for socio-economic recovery.
“At this critical moment the UN is mobilising global action for a multilateral response to COVID-19. With the arrival of the first batch of vaccines the Maldives, provided via the COVAX facility, the UN’s close partnership with the Government of Maldives against COVID-19, to support the national response efforts and vaccination rollout, to ensure safety of all, and leave no one behind in our road to recovery”, said Catherine Haswell, UN Resident Coordinator in Maldives.
UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, - “No one is safe until everyone is safe”.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/115607-covid-19-vaccines-shipped-covax-arrived-maldives




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: International Women's Day 2021 - UN Maldives Action Campaign
Content: 08 March 2021
The main objective of this Action Campaign is to amplify commitments made by leaders to make a meaningful, timely change in their institution or sector towards achieving gender equality and non-discrimination.
The Action Campaign was launched today, with the first two video pledges from His Excellency President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih and the Chief Justice Hon. Muthasim Adnan.
Invitations to take part in the campaign are open for all leaders at various levels of the Government, Cabinet Ministers, Parliament, the judiciary, political parties, civil society organizations, the private sector until 15 March 2021.
This year’s campaign is different. It is not just a day for announcements. The UN Maldives will compile the commitments made under the hashtag, #IWDPledges2021 and will annually monitor and track progress to encourage implementation. Because results matter, and we need to work together to ensure a more equal future for all.
On International Women’s Day and every day, the UN family will continue our support and partnership to create more inclusive communities where women and girls have equal opportunities to reach their full potential and accelerate achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 5 - Gender Equality.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/115214-international-womens-day-2021-un-maldives-action-campaign




Date: 02 March 2021
Title: Statement by the  UN Resident Coordinator for the Republic of Maldives, Catherine Haswell on Government Efforts in Ensuring Vaccine Equity
Content: 02 March 2021
I congratulate His Excellency President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih for his leadership from day one on ensuring that all Maldivians, and residents in the Maldives regardless of their nationality or legal status, are provided free COVID-19 vaccinations.
President Solih initiated the “Covid-19 Dhifaau” campaign to vaccinate the entire population against COVID-19 on 1 February 2021. The Government of Maldives policy is a leading example for ensuring vaccine equity.
As of today, over 123,000 people have been vaccinated in the Maldives.
In line with the Government of Maldives National Vaccination Programme, the priority has been for front‑line workers and people in high-risk groups.
The Maldivian Red Crescent (MRC) is supporting the successful vaccine roll out to undocumented migrants, with vaccines provided by the Government.
The UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO) are helping with planning and coordination, including by training health‑care staff on managing and administering the vaccine. UNICEF and WHO are also providing support for the cold chain, supply and storage management for vaccines.
The UN Maldives team is committed to support vaccine access to & rollout for all Maldivians & residents.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114335-statement-un-resident-coordinator-republic-maldives-catherine-haswell-government-efforts




Date: 25 February 2021
Title: WHO gives laboratory, cold chain equipment to Maldives to strengthen pandemic response, build resilient health systems
Content: 25 February 2021
The World Health Organization today handed over cold chain and laboratory supplies to the Ministry of Health Maldives to strengthen pandemic response and support building of a resilient health system.
At a virtual ceremony WHO South-East Asia Regional Director, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, handed over the supplies to the Minister of Health, Mr. Ahmed Naseem. The supplies will build modern cold chain system for COVID-19 and other vaccines, strengthen quality of care, and sustain quality testing for COVID-19, measles, rubella and Influenza.
“With WHO's contributions, Maldives has made significant progress in its healthcare and development indicators over the past decades,” said the Minister of Health, Mr. Ahmed Naseem, said adding, “Being a small island nation, Maldives is vulnerable to the impacts of socio­ economic transformations and environmental challenges. As such, it is imperative that we prioritize increasing our capacity for protecting health in an unstable and changing climate.’”
Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh said, “despite the country’s global connectedness and population density in capital Male, COVID-19 cases and deaths in the country have been three times below the global average mortality per million population.”
Since the beginning of the pandemic, WHO has been working with Maldives government and partners for implementing scenario-based response, and the whole-of-government, whole-of-society buy-in. The procurement of essential medicines and consumables has helped Maldives maintain essential health services, which has been one of the Region’s key areas of focus throughout the response.
With the help of WHO-provided test kits, Maldives has tested a staggering 75% of its population. Cold chain equipment donated is adequate to support vaccine management for the next 10 years.
The Regional Director said Maldives spends 10% of GDP on health – the highest allocation in the Region – and provides government-funded comprehensive health insurance to every Maldivian.
“I am certain that Maldives’ commitment to adequate and efficient public health financing will continue to be a core feature of its efforts to achieve UHC, a flagship priority in the Region and the target that underpins Sustainable Development Goal 3,” she said.
Today’s hand-over will build on the country’s achievements by facilitating COVID-19 vaccine roll-out and ensuring Maldives can maintain its progress in other important areas of work, including strengthening TB and measles and rubella surveillance.
“I look forward to Maldives’ ongoing regional and global leadership throughout the vaccine roll-out and in the recovery from the crisis and commend leaders on their commitment to build a caring state and to implement the Strategic Action Plan in letter and spirit,”  Dr Khetrapal Singh said.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/116411-who-gives-laboratory-cold-chain-equipment-maldives-strengthen-pandemic-response-build




Date: 22 February 2021
Title: High Level Joint Steering Committee of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) Holds First Meeting Today
Content: 22 February 2021
The First High Level Joint Steering Committee of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) was convened virtually today, for a joint consultation between the Government and the UN regarding the UNSDCF. The UNSDCF will be the blueprint for all UN efforts in the Maldives for 2022-2026.
The Joint Steering Committee is co-chaired by Dr. Hala Hameed, Secretary, Multilateral at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Government and Ms. Catherine Haswell, United Nations Resident Coordinator, on behalf of the UN.
Speaking at the meeting, Dr. Hala Hameed, the Government Co-chair stated that the Cooperation Framework is a joint endeavour between the Government and the UN Country Team, to achieve the development goals envisioned in the Government’s Strategic Action Plan (SAP), carrying forward the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In particular, she highlighted the Net-Zero pledge made by President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, that should be a priority in the pursuance of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The UN Resident Coordinator briefed the Committee on the role of the UNSDCF, the centre of the UN Development System’s collective support to the Maldives. She informed the Committee that it will be developed through extensive consultations with a wide range of partners and in joint collaboration with the Government, to generate a transformative shift in development in the Maldives.
The Government Steering Committee Members actively participated in the discussion, sharing their experiences and lessons learnt from the current UN Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) cycle, highlighting areas for improving collaboration with UN agencies.
The UNSDCF High Level Steering Committee comprises of members from The President’s Office; Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure; Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Economic Development; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment; Ministry of Education; Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services; the Attorney-General’s Office; and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The United Nations was represented by the UN Resident Coordinator, UNDP, WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, International Organisation for Migration (IOM) and the International Labor Organisation (ILO).
ENDS
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114126-high-level-joint-steering-committee-united-nations-sustainable-development-cooperation




Date: 18 February 2021
Title: Youth Vision Coffee Table Book Presented to Speaker of Majlis
Content: 18 February 2021
Today, young artists presented the ‘Youth Vision - Coffee Table Book’ to Hon. President Mohamed Nasheed, MP, Speaker of the People’s Majlis.
The book is a collection of artwork from ‘Youth Vision – An Art Workshop’ conducted by Ministry of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment and UNDP Maldives with support from the European Union and Ooredoo Maldives. Youth Vision is a virtual platform and safe space, providing conversations and guidance in creating art in order to help participants process the mental difficulties brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.
49 youth from across different islands and atolls digitally connected with mentors who guided them to explore different themes such as peace and social cohesion, job security and other social issues, and apply their learnings to their own lives. Participants shared their experiences and diverse lived realities with each other. The mentors introduced them to different creative media, concepts and philosophies to help them complete their own piece of art.
Youth Vision Art Workshop concluded with a virtual art exhibit titled “Ekani Ekuga – An Exhibit by the Youth” that saw each participant showcase their art pieces. The ‘Youth Vision - Coffee Table Book’ is the curated work of these 49 Maldivian youth who were exploring intimate narratives during a time of exceptional uncertainty, and came together to produce some amazing works of art.
As we move into the second year of the pandemic, the future looks brighter with vaccines rolling out and a light appearing at the end of a tunnel that has encompassed the world in a physically distant shadow since early 2020.
With this hope, our participants present the ‘Youth Vision – Coffee Table Book’ with the hope that youth voices and stories encompassed in their artwork will inspire policymaking and initiatives affecting young people.
Along with youth participants of the initiative, UNDP Resident Representative Ms. Akiko Fujii, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Youth were in attendance at the handover of the coffee table book.
Find out more about the Youth Vision initiative at: ‘Youth Vision – An Art Workshop’ Concludes
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114065-youth-vision-coffee-table-book-presented-speaker-majlis




Date: 08 January 2021
Title: Maldives: UNODC builds national capacity of the Maldives Correctional Service on “dynamic security” for prison officers
Content: 08 January 2021
Male (Maldives)/08 January 2021: The increasing prevalence of radicalization in prisons is a growing concern for the Government of Maldives and poses significant challenges to the security and safety of prison environments. Humane prison conditions and rehabilitative approaches to prison management contributes to a safer and secure prison environment. Establishing positive relationships between prison officers and inmates contribute to increased safety and security of prison environments.
Focusing on these aspects, UNODC is implementing the project, “Support to Maldives on Counter-Terrorism”, with funding from the European Union. The project aims to enhance the capacity of Maldives Correctional Service (MCS) to promote rule-of-law based approaches to counter terrorism, and effectively managing high risk prisoners and prisoners requiring special management.
In this context, a three-day train-the-trainer (ToT) dynamic security course was organized by UNODC Regional Office for South Asia (ROSA), in collaboration with the Maldives Correctional Service (MCS) in December 2020.
Convened at the Institute for Correctional Studies in Maafushi Prison, Maldives, the ToT was attended by 19 Correctional Officers (4 female and 15 male officers). The course was led by UNODC prison expert Ms. Aida Mnyolmo, whose on-site participation was facilitated by MCS. The course focused on helping participants understand the personal situation of prisoners, as a part of establishing a positive communication between prison officers and inmates. The ToT was based on UNODC Handbook on Dynamic Security and Prison Intelligence.
The opening ceremony of the workshop was attended by the Assistant Superintendent Ahmed Riza, Director of Maafushi Prisons, Deputy Director of Maafushi Prisons, Deputy Director of the Institute for Correctional Studies, Commissioned Officers and UNODC National Programme Coordinator Ms. Thoiba Saeedh. In his special remarks, Assistant Superintendent Ahmed Riza, Director of Maafushi Prison, highlighted the importance of dynamic security in prison practices, especially on the need to establish positive relationships with prisoners to prevent escapes, unrests and potential risks that could undermine the safety of the prison.
The course was the first of a series of training courses on managing the safety and security of prisons. The training enabled participants to introduce effective prison management practices and identify risks based on prison intelligence. The principle of dynamic security supplements physical and procedural security in prisons by ensuring external security (preventing evasions) and internal security (preventing unrest).
UNODC supports member States in prison reform, through support to improve detention conditions, capacity building of officers, technical and advisory support, in line with international standards and norms.
Link to UNODC Handbook on Dynamic Security and Prison Intelligence
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175970-maldives-unodc-builds-national-capacity-maldives-correctional-service-%E2%80%9Cdynamic-security%E2%80%9D




Date: 04 January 2021
Title: The European Union and the World Health Organization join hands to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the Maldives
Content: 04 January 2021
The World Health Organization country office for the Maldives (WHO), with financial support worth EUR 1 million from the European Union (EU), will help improve emergency response capacities in the Maldives to mitigate the impact of COVID-19.
The support will focus on improving the management of COVID-19 cases. This will be done through provision of medicines, supplies and reagents to Hulhumale Isolation facility and Regional ICU facility and includes support to green medical waste management in selected facilities. Additionally, capacity building of critical care, case management and rapid response teams of the Huhumale Isolation Facility, Regional hospitals will be supported. A regional ICU facility will also be established with this support. As a result of the aid by the EU, access to COVID-19 patients to isolation and ICU care will improve.
“The funding for the Maldives is another element of the EU’s global response to the coronavirus pandemic,” said Ambassador of the Delegation of the European Union to Sri Lanka and the Maldives H.E. Denis Chaibi.“The EU partnership with the WHO and the Government of the Maldives will not just address the impact on the health sector but also pay special attention to vulnerable populations, working hand-in-hand with local communities. Strengthening response capacities of countries in the South Asian region is an important part of ensuring that we all recover from this crisis together. Green recovery is important to prevent future disasters. In the case of the Maldives which is a major tourist destination, not just the local population but also tourists from the EU and elsewhere may benefit from a better response capacity of the medical system.”
“The support from EU has been very timely and efficient.” stated Dr Shushil Dev Pant, Acting WHO Representative to the Maldives, “The support was much needed to operationalize the Hulhumale Isolation facility to meet the demands that come with higher number of cases, and to provide the best possible care for severe cases. The provision of life saving equipment and training critical team will improve recoveries.” “WHO and the EU are major partners in health development and pandemic preparedness and response in WHO South East Asia Region and offer solidarity to support the needs of the health sector.”, Dr Pant added, “WHO is optimistic that the support we have brought to
Maldives will help strengthen the Health System in the country and help current pandemic response as well as health care in future.” His Excellency Minister for Health, Ahmed Naseem welcomed the EU contribution to the Maldives via WHO during his remarks. ““WHO as a partner has been working very closely with us and I would like to extend my warm appreciation to the Director General of WHO, Madam Regional Director, former and acting WHO Representatives for the continuous support and assistance in COVID-19 response and management efforts,”.
“Success in controlling the spread of COVID-19 in Maldives is mainly due to the assistance of WHO as well as partners such as the EU and neighboring countries. I thank all of you for your kindness and for the help that you’ve rendered.” he stated.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/116414-european-union-and-world-health-organization-join-hands-mitigate-impact-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 27 December 2020
Title: Workshop on Capacity Building of NGO Partners GEF Small Grants Programme (SGP) Maldives
Content: 27 December 2020
The Small Grants Programme (SGP) is a corporate programme of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) implemented by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) since 1992. SGP grant making in over 125 countries promotes community-based innovation, capacity development, and empowerment through sustainable development projects of local civil society organizations with special consideration for indigenous peoples, women, and youth. SGP has supported over 24,000 community-based projects in biodiversity conservation, climate change mitigation and adaptation, prevention of land degradation, protection of international waters and reduction of the impact of chemicals, while generating sustainable livelihoods.
Since implementation of GEF SGP in the Maldives in 2010, a total of US$2,600,000 (MVR39,000,000) has been granted to 98 projects across the country.
The objective of the 7th Operational Phase of the Small Grants Programme is “to promote and support community-based innovative, inclusive and impactful initiatives and foster multi-stakeholder partnerships at the local level to tackle global environmental issues in priority landscapes and seascapes”.
In order to achieve the objectives, SGP is to focus on the following 5 thematic areas:
1.community-based conservation of threatened ecosystems and species 2. sustainable agriculture and fisheries leading to Food Security, 3. low carbon energy access co-benefits, 4. local to global coalitions for chemicals and waste management, 5. catalysing sustainable urban solutions
Maldives began its 7th Operational Phase with opening a call on 22 October 2020 to submit concepts, inviting Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) with priority for national and local Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs), Community-based Organizations (CBOs) and scientific communities, advocating for the rights of persons with disability, women, and youth to submit concept papers.
By the deadline (22 November 2020) a total of 72 concept were received and 26 concepts were shortlisted for next stage of grant awarding.
Selection of grantees follow a two-stage process: proponents whose concept notes are shortlisted will be first invited to submit full proposals. The full proposals will then be evaluated to select successful grantees.
A successful grantee will obtain a maximum grant amount of $30,000. However, in exceptional cases $50,000 may be considered. The maximum duration of a project is 24 months.
To help in the second stage, a proposal writing, and project management workshop is to be held from 27 December 2020 to 2 January 2021. Fifty-two participants from twenty-six NGOs/CBOs are expected to complete the online workshop. The aim of the workshop is to enhance capacity of the NGOs/CBOs, in wring a full proposal with the required standards and help the proponents with proper project management skills, effective management of grant funds, sustainable management of knowledge gathered from the project and to effectively communicate the results of the project. The workshop will be conducted with the help of experts from various sectors.
A total grant amount of $450,000 (MVR6,750,000) is to be disbursed to local communities through the successful grantees. These funds come from GEF core funds and from the German Federal Ministry of the Environment and Nuclear Safety (BMU) to the Global Indigenous Community Conserved Areas (ICCA) Support Initiative (GSI). ICCA Initiative is implemented by UNDP and delivered through the GEF Small Grants Programme.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114064-workshop-capacity-building-ngo-partners-gef-small-grants-programme-sgp-maldives




Date: 16 December 2020
Title: Handover of Digital Equipment to Attorney General's Office
Content: 16 December 2020
Today marks an important step in 'Bridging The Digital Divide' of the justice sector with the handover of equipment by UNDP to the Attorney General's Office of the Maldives to facilitate video conferencing and software systems for virtual and digital platforms to conduct online court hearings.
Along with the handover of equipment, UNDP is also supporting the AG Office with training of court officials to use the digital platforms and ensure necessary information and service are continuously accessible to all sectors of the public to ensure equal access.
With the handover of digital equipment, AG Office will be establishing integrated case management and e-filing of cases across all courts, while safeguarding data privacy and security.  increases access to justice.
"I sincerely thank the UNDP for the equipment we received today. A special thank you to UNDP Resident Representative to the Maldives, Ms Akiko Fujii for her leadership and foresight and the continued support provided, to strengthen the governance and justice system of the Maldives," said Hon. Ibrahim Riffath, Attorney General of the Maldives.
UNDP Resident Representative Akiko Fujii thanked the Attorney General for championing the agenda of modernizing the justice system and decentralizing services for island communities, and stated these efforts as a fundamental step to achieve the Sustainable Goals for the Maldives, especially Goal 10 on reduced inequalites, and Goal 16 on peace, justice and strong institutions.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114072-handover-digital-equipment-attorney-generals-office




Date: 14 December 2020
Title: UNICEF delivers laptops and other key equipment to ensure continued learning during the COVID-19 pandemic to the Ministry of Education
Content: 14 December 2020
UNICEF has delivered 420 laptops, surface disinfectants, and literacy materials to the Government of Maldives to enhance the capacity of the Ministry of Education in reopening schools in 2021 during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
The impact of the global pandemic on children’s lives has been disruptive, as school systems across the world shut down during lockdown and teachers moved to online platforms to ensure continuity of learning for children. As the Ministry of Education has worked tirelessly to continue learning, one of the key challenges faced especially by teachers is the limited resources.
The 420 laptops, worth MVR 5.6 million and procured through the Global Partnership for Education - Accelerated Funding for COVID-19, will alleviate the problem of resources faced by schools, ensuring teachers have access to the teaching-learning devices to ensure continuous learning through distance learning.  The Global Partnership for Education has provided MVR 11.6 million through UNICEF, for the COVID-19 Education response.
UNICEF has also supplied over 2,000 units of surface disinfectants, worth over MVR 771,000, financed through a grant by USAID to UNICEF, to support the efforts of the Ministry of Education to safely reopen schools in 2020 and 2021. Additionally, the donation of Dhivehi literacy materials by UNICEF, worth over MVR 763,000 will help improve the literacy of pre-primary and primary students across the country.
UNICEF Representative Dr. M. Munir A. Safieldin stated that the “Dhivehi reading materials are very important for students in primary schools, as they are not only easy-to-ready, but easy-to-read materials in their mother tongue, especially since school libraries need more books in Dhivehi”.
The consequences and impact of COVID-19 go far beyond public health risks associated with a pandemic. From what is observed globally, and, in the Maldives, national recovery efforts need to consider the various but interconnected socioeconomic impacts such as limited access to essential services such as learning and health services as well as mental health issues faced by children and adults.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/125394-unicef-delivers-laptops-and-other-key-equipment-ensure-continued-learning-during-covid-19




Date: 10 December 2020
Title: Reflecting 15 years, The “Rights” Side of Life 2020 Survey Launched
Content: 10 December 2020
The “Rights” Side of Life is a human rights survey to understand attitudes, awareness and perceptions of the public on a range of human rights issues in the Maldives. The latest survey conducted together with the Family Protection Authority (FPA) also focused on examining the knowledge, perceptions and prevalence of domestic violence in the Maldives.
The survey collected data on these areas to understand the current situation in the country and provide insights on the extent of the additional work required to address any shortcomings. The information helps prioritize future directions for human rights promotion, prevention of domestic violence and assists in identifying areas for more research.
“We hope that the findings of this survey will contribute to strengthen the efforts in protecting and promoting human rights in the Maldives. In this regard we will reflect on this survey in formulating our strategies and plans to deliver our constitutional mandate and overcome the challenges faced in protecting human rights. In addition, we plan to build upon the findings of the survey to enhance the roles and functions of the Commission and to regain the public confidence in the institution. It is our sincere hope that this survey will be beneficial for all State Institutions mandated to ensure the provision of human rights and other human rights actors promoting and protecting human rights,” said Human Rights Commissioner, Shifaath Razzaq.
The survey report highlights human rights concerns that have magnified over the years. For instance, the support for gender equality and women’s rights have diminished, and there is a worrying increase in the number of women who did not respond to questions regarding equal rights in the family unit and child custody matters. There is growing concern regarding child sexual abuse - an issue consistently highlighted in all three surveys. The report also reveals the need for more transparent and accountable governance institutions and greater awareness of human rights across the country.
Some of the key findings from the survey report include:
1. An increase in public awareness of HRCM at 84.8% in 2019 compared to 40.8% in 2005.
2. Only 36.5% of respondents were able to name five human rights, suggesting a decline from 45.1% in 2011.
3. Corruption (21.0%) and lack of trust between political parties (20.0%) were considered the leading factors undermining the success of the democratic process.
4. There were worrying responses from a considerable number of people who felt that gender equality and child rights are not compatible with Islam. And it’s concerning that most of these respondents were women.
5. The number of male respondents who agree that others outside the family should intervene if a man mistreats his wife increased from 48.2% in 2005 to 59.1% in 2019.
6. 93.6% of the respondents affirmed child sexual abuse of girls as a serious issue, while 91.7% of the respondents affirmed child sexual abuse of boys as a serious issue.
7. 40.9% of respondents are dissatisfied with the protection and services assured for persons with disabilities.
8. 23% of the respondents believe that the most important area to ensure the rights of the elderly was to prevent neglect of elderly persons, while 11% of respondents believe it is the need to prevent abuse of the elderly.
9.  Majority (63.6%) of the people were dissatisfied with overall health services and especially those from outer islands (62.3%).
10. The number of respondents dissatisfied with the judiciary accounted for at 56.3% of the respondents. Most commonly cited reason for the loss of judicial confidence pertained to corruption at 39.2%.
11. Almost half (46%) of the respondents were convinced that the government was taking adequate measures to improve housing services.
12. More than half (59.0%) of the respondents were dissatisfied over the allocations of resources between administrative atolls and islands.
13. There has been a considerable decrease in the number of people (7.9%) working for more than 12 hours when compared to 20.0% in 2005.
14. Fewer women (11.0%) reported earning a salary over MVR 15,000 in comparison to that of men (17.6%).
15. Majority (80.0%) of people said that they knew where to lodge complaints for domestic violence.
16. Most women responded that their husbands were the perpetrators of domestic violence, while most men reported having suffered abuse from previous partners.
"It is crucial that we all do our part to protect and promote core fundamental rights such as the right to life and to bodily integrity that is entitled to all human beings," stated Chief Executive Officer of the Family Protection Authority, Aminath Leena Ali.
The findings of the survey are intended to provide a basis for policy-making and agenda setting to strengthen systems that promote and protect human rights and the rule of law in the Maldives.
“The nation’s efforts to promote and protect human rights while working towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals continue to be challenged by the fragility of the social and political fabric of the country. In the face of these challenges, the third Right Side of Life survey provides valuable data in initiating discussions and dialogues around human rights, state obligations and citizen responsibilities,” said UNDP Resident Representative, Akiko Fujii.
Read the full Report here
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114061-reflecting-15-years-%E2%80%9Crights%E2%80%9D-side-life-2020-survey-launched




Date: 08 December 2020
Title: Automatic Weather Stations Handed Over to Maldives Meteorological Services: better water security for communities
Content: 08 December 2020
By adding on to the network of Auto Weather Stations in Maldives, the project will improve the accuracy of the rainfall and weather predictions. This will enable communities to harvest and manage rainwater more efficiently, ultimately driving towards better water security for communities throughout the Maldives.
The main objectives of the expanding the AWS network in the Maldives are to:
Ministry of Environment has been working closely with the Maldives Metrological Service (MMS) to integrate the needs of the project led by the Ministry into climate modelling and monitoring systems that are being upgraded by the MMS.  Through this collaboration the MMS will undertake operation and maintenance of all Automatic Weather Stations to be installed under the project.
UNDP relies on national partners such as the Ministry of Environment, as our implementing partner, to create the synergies with other state authorities to ensure the project benefits are sustained beyond the project life-span. The linkage with MMS adds value to the project's objectives by improving accuracy of weather predictions, which enables the national and local authorities to manage water resources and plan for shortages.
UNDP Resident Representative Akiko Fujii Akiko congratulated the Ministry and its leadership on achieving this tremendous achievement, in spite of the challenging times, and made note of the importance of this intervention for Maldivian communities for whom water is scarce and precious. The provision of the AWS’s are also timely, as water availability and access to clean water is crucial to combatting the COVID-19 crisis, Akiko said, speaking at the handover ceremony.
Akiko further stated that the project accelerates progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, particularly SDG 6 on clean water and sanitation and SDG 13 on climate action.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114071-automatic-weather-stations-handed-over-maldives-meteorological-services-better-water




Date: 05 December 2020
Title: UNODC Supports South Asia to Explore the Establishment of a Regional PVE Network
Content: 05 December 2020
In the last decade, South Asia has experienced one of the highest impacts from terrorism (2019 Global CT Index). As a result, there is increased recognition by governments in the region, and elsewhere, of the serious threat to regional and international security posed by radicalization to violence and violent extremism leading to terrorism in South Asia.
In response to these regional challenges, UNODC’s Terrorism Prevention Branch, in coordination with the National Counter Terrorism Centre of the Republic of Maldives, conducted a two-day online consultation event on  “Promoting the development of a regional network in South Asia and effective partnership between public sector, local communities and civil society organizations for preventing and countering violent extremism leading to terrorism” on 11-12 May 2020. The event, which was opened by the Minister of Defence Ms. Mariya Ahmed Didi, brought together international experts and national criminal justice practitioners, relevant state officials and representatives from national civil society organizations.
During the meeting, experts introduced the structure, modalities and technical aspects of the European Union Radicalisation Awareness Network (RAN), which was intended to serve as an example of a Network with similar functionalities. Discussions then focused on establishing a regional PVE Network for South Asia as well as tailoring it to the regional context. Participants outlined the needs of law enforcement and criminal justice authorities in the Network and discussed the ways to promote and enhance the key aspects of a whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach to preventing and countering violent extremism leading to terrorism. All participants recognized the necessary inclusion of civil society organizations in the Network. The event concluded with an agreement to develop a draft roadmap to establish a Regional PVE Network for South Asia, which will be discussed during the next consultation meeting with regional stakeholders.
The event was generously funded by Germany.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/113049-unodc-supports-south-asia-explore-establishment-regional-pve-network




Date: 26 November 2020
Title: Coffee for a Good Cause! ‘Silent Coffee’ Launched
Content: 26 November 2020
Team Silent Coffee’s concept was of running a café with deaf baristas, where customers can order coffee in sign language, and experience the barriers that people with disabilities face in their everyday lives. The concept would also provide employment for deaf people and a space to have interaction with the general community, while providing the public a chance to learn simple sign language through the act of getting a coffee.
The team was able to pilot their concept, thanks to the coffee shop ‘The Coffee Shrub’, where during set hours, silent coffee can be hosted within it.  The team has been working with sign language interpreters to make their dream a reality.
“UNDP always has and will continue to advocate for a society that is accessible and inclusive to all. We hope that through this initiative everyone gets a chance to experience and understand the barriers in communication that people with disabilities face on a daily basis,” said Akiko Fujii, UNDP Resident Representative, at the launch at The Coffee Shrub premises today.
UNDP wishes to thank partners for the support: Ooredoo, the Ministry of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment, Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services, and several passionate NGOs such as Maldives Association of Persons with Disabilities (MAPD), Maldives Deaf Association, and the Blind and Visually Impaired Society of Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114070-coffee-good-cause-%E2%80%98silent-coffee%E2%80%99-launched




Date: 19 November 2020
Title: Vice President meets with the UN Resident Coordinator
Content: 19 November 2020



Vice President Faisal Naseem met with the United Nations Resident Coordinator to the Maldives, Ms. Catherine Haswell, and held discussions on strengthening social sector services in the country, this morning at the President’s Office.
The Vice President extended his heartfelt gratitude for the UN Country Team’s continued support provided throughout the years, noting the generous assistance in dealing with the Covid-19 emergency relief efforts in the Maldives.
The UN Resident Coordinator praised the Government's efforts in managing the Covid-19 pandemic and discussed issues concerning the wider health sector. She reiterated the UN’s commitment towards collaborating with the Government to further strengthen the Maldives’ social sector, touching on the importance of human resource development, building resilience and management and coordination among all stakeholders.
Ms. Catherine Haswell was accompanied by the UNICEF Resident Representative Dr Munir Safieldin, while, Vice President Faisal Naseem was accompanied by the Special Adviser on Social Policy at the President’s Office, Dr. Mustafa Lutfi, Secretary of Foreign Relations, Sabra Ibrahim Noordeen, and Under Secretary, Aishath Nazhath.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/102385-vice-president-meets-un-resident-coordinator




Date: 16 November 2020
Title: UNICEF delivers laptops and test kits to enhance the capacity of the HEOC to respond to COVID-19
Content: 16 November 2020
UNICEF has delivered 46 laptops and 5,000 PCR test kits to the Government of Maldives to enhance the response capacity of the Health Emergency Operations Centre (HEOC) which is leading the ongoing national efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.
The HEOC is the heart of the COVID-19 response operations and the working groups within have been working under very challenging conditions such as limited staff and lack of computers. The laptops supplied by UNICEF would be used for the critical work of 17 crucial working groups including; the Rapid Response Team (RRT), Call Centre, Contact Tracing, Media and Communication, Medical Supplies and Planning and Coordination.
The supply of 5,000 PCR test kits will help increase the HEOC’s ability to widely test for COVID-19, a crucial step towards isolating, quarantining and managing confirmed cases.
The supplies handed over today are worth 1.73 million Maldivian Rufiyaa. To date, UNICEF’s support to the health sector for COVID-19 response exceeds 17 million Maldivian Rufiyaa. In the coming few weeks UNICEF will provide the MoH with funding for acquiring additional human resources in addition to two shipments of medical equipment for Intensive Care Units (ICUs).
Since March 2020, UNICEF’s support has been flexible and coordinated to meet the requirements of the partners due to the rapidly changing nature of the pandemic. UNICEF’s support to the Government in its response to the COVID-19 emergency includes:
The consequences and impact of COVID-19 go far beyond public health risks associated with a pandemic. From what is observed globally, and, in the Maldives, national recovery efforts need to consider the various but interconnected socioeconomic impacts such as limited access to essential services such as learning and health services as well as mental health issues faced by children and adults.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/125395-unicef-delivers-laptops-and-test-kits-enhance-capacity-heoc-respond-covid-19




Date: 08 November 2020
Title: UNDP provides assistance to the Government of Maldives in the fight against COVID-19
Content: 08 November 2020
Joint Press Release by UNDP Maldives and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to mark the donation of Personal Protective Equipment to support the COVID-19 response as part of its COVID-19 Integrated Response Support.
The items handed over by Ms. Akiko Fujii, UNDP Resident Representative in the Maldives on behalf of UNDP, were received by His Excellency Abdulla Shahid, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Government of Maldives, in a symbolic ceremony held at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The essential medical supplies presented to the Government include: 1080 hazmat suits, 10,080 N95 masks, 5000 surgical gowns, 6000 surgical masks, 400 goggles, 6000 head covers, 2000 face shields, 5000 shoe covers and 10,000 examination gloves. The PPE items will be used to support health workers on the frontline of the COVID-19 response, to safely and effectively continue their work while preventing further spread of the disease.
Speaking at the ceremony held at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Shahid thanked UNDP for its continued support to the Government of Maldives through its development trajectory, especially noting UNDP’s support in the areas of climate action, the consolidation of democracy and the eradication of poverty. Minister Shahid also highlighted the importance of effective partnerships in combating natural calamities such as the COVID-19 pandemic.
In addition to the PPEs, one million non-surgical masks, acquired in partnership with the private sector, namely, Teochew International Federation, were also donated to the Government of Maldives in today’s ceremony. The masks will be utilised by local tourism workers employed in guesthouses, in a bid to facilitate the economic recovery process under the new normal – a recommendation made in the Rapid Livelihoods Assessment conducted by the Ministry of Economic Development with the support of UNDP this year. This assessment led to the designing and implementation of livelihoods and economic recovery programmes - providing immediate socio-economic relief to the most affected, in particular youth who lost jobs and women entrepreneurs.
During the ceremony, Ms. Akiko Fujii, UNDP Resident Representative commended the Government of Maldives on the measures being undertaken in response to the COVID-19 outbreak and for the leadership in recovering and building back better. “With this support, in addition to protecting health workers, the government and UNDP will effectively protect local tourism workers. As local tourism entities begin to re-open, PPEs will be critical in reducing transmission risks and minimizing the potential for the pandemic to escalate. It is important to ensure that those on the frontlines are protected, and that business continuity is supported in order to restore the country’s economy and people’s livelihoods - especially in the islands,” Ms. Fujii said.
Building on the Rapid Livelihoods Assessment, UNDP’s ongoing collaborations under the latest offer 2.0 in the theme of “Beyond Recovery: Towards 2030”  have been adjusted to support the Maldives in the context of the new normal under COVID-19 recovery. It includes a special focus on the climate and environment promise, as well as governance, women’s empowerment, justice and social cohesion.
The Government of Maldives acknowledges the valuable role played by the United Nations Country Team amidst the COVID-19 pandemic to provide the necessary expertise, support and assistance required to overcome not only the health emergency but also for the long-term planning and recovery to build back better. The event today is a testimony to the power of partnerships to overcome the challenges faced by Small Island Developing States such as the Maldives.
The handover ceremony was attended by the UN Resident Coordinator, Heads of UN Agencies in the Maldives, and senior officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Tourism.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114069-undp-provides-assistance-government-maldives-fight-against-covid-19




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: President sends message on the occasion of the Maldives’ 55th anniversary of UN Membership
Content: 21 September 2020
President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih has this morning sent a message on the occasion of the Maldives 55th anniversary as a member state of the United Nations.
The President's message reads as follows:
Today marks our 55th Anniversary as a member state of the United Nations. This is a proud milestone for us. At the time of our independence, July 26 1965, many in the international community doubted that an impoverished island state in the Indian Ocean, with a population numbering less than two hundred thousand people, could stand on its own two feet as a sovereign nation. Thankfully, the United Nations Security Council, after debating the merits of our admission, passed Resolution 212, recommending our membership to the General Assembly.
We remain grateful for that decision and have never taken it for granted. In the time since, we have transformed our country into a middle income economy, sustained by a world-renowned tourism industry. We are one of the most active and visible small island states, acting in concert with our international peers to resolve pressing issues, including the climate emergency, and Covid-19. We have used every opportunity to be represented on some of the UN’s most important platforms – including in its Human Rights Council on two occasions.
As we celebrate this anniversary of our membership, which almost exactly coincides with the 75th Anniversary of the United Nations itself, we commit to always abide by the principles and values enshrined in its Charter. Those values, most importantly, multilateral engagement on the basis of mutual respect among all nations, is what will allow us to confront and resolve the challenges that face us.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/102436-president-sends-message-occasion-maldives%E2%80%99-55th-anniversary-un-membership




Date: 17 September 2020
Title: UNODC hands over vessel search equipment for the Maldives
Content: 17 September 2020
On September 17, UNODC GMCP held a handover event of equipment delivered earlier this year to Maldives Customs Service. The equipment included safety gear (overalls, gloves, glasses and boots), search tools (screwdrivers, pliers, torches, inspection mirrors and laser measurers), and portable multi-gas analyzers, for the effective conduction of vessel search operations at port. The event was attended by the Commissioner General of Customs and the Ambassador of Japan to Maldives, who gave remarks. UNODC was praised for its commitment to improve the capacity of Maldives authorities in disrupting maritime crime in Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/113052-unodc-hands-over-vessel-search-equipment-maldives




Date: 17 September 2020
Title: UNDP Supports Digitalization Efforts of Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services and IGMH to Strengthen Business Continuity of Social Services For COVID-19 Recovery
Content: 17 September 2020
Procured at the  request of the Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services (MoGFSS) and Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital (IGMH), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the Maldives today presented the Ministry and hospital with digital equipment to help maintain uninterrupted provision of social services to people during a crisis such as COVID-19. Digitalisation of vital services enhances prevention of virus spread by promoting remote administration and reducing physical contacts.
UNDP supports the Ministry’s response to public demands for better communication and information provision. The digital equipment provided will help the Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services to establish the Care Portal that will be used to provide services to the people in need. The support also aims to assist the Centre for Mental Health at IGMH and its Centre for Mental Health - set up for reporting of social issues and protection issues by vulnerable groups, and will contribute to transform business processes that were disrupted due to the COVID-19 crisis.
With COVID-19, public institutions and service providers had to adapt working remotely, facing many restrictions and limitations as such mechanisms were not in place fully. “In the midst of the global pandemic, this digital innovation support can help the Call Centre in providing uninterrupted services and support to the victims of domestic violence and gender-based violence, persons with disabilities, elderly and others facing social issues,” stated MoGFSS.
"Mental Health is relevant to all of us especially during these challenging times. We believe that digitalization of Centre for Mental Health will benefit not only Malé, but vulnerable populations living across the country," stated Centre for Mental Health.
“With the ongoing pandemic, working remotely has become a necessity for governments and service providers to continue operating whilst complying with health guidelines to curb the spread of the virus. UNDP pays special attention to the benefits of innovation and digital disruption in this challenging time. The handover of digital equipment forms part of the overall UNDP business continuity initiative, which is supporting public institutions transition to a virtual operating environment in order to continue providing essential services to those who need it the most,” said UNDP Resident Representative Akiko Fujii, speaking at the handover ceremony.
The digitalisation items were supplied as part of UNDP’s COVID-19 Integrated Response Offer 1.0, which supports the health emergency measures as well as longer-term socio-economic recovery. Under its integrated governance support, UNDP works closely with the Ministry to promote women’s leadership in both political and economic spheres, while enhancing their access to justice and legal aid and prevent Gender Based Violence.
Building on this support, UNDP’s ongoing collaboration under the latest offer 2.0 in the form of ‘Beyond Recovery: Towards 2030’, aims to assist the Maldives in strengthening Democratic Governance, a Green/Blue economy, and social protection and digitalisation as a means of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of the wider UN Maldives’ socioeconomic recovery framework.
Working together with other UN agencies, UNDP is committed to providing the necessary support to Maldives to effectively contribute to national priorities under the government’s recovery planning to ensure a full social and economic recovery and to Build Forward Better.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114073-undp-supports-digitalization-efforts-ministry-gender-family-and-social-services-and-igmh




Date: 17 September 2020
Title: Closing geographical gap, Maldives Judiciary continue justice services to people in remote islands amidst COVID-19
Content: 17 September 2020
In a bid to facilitate justice sector services to remote populations through digital means under COVID-19, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the Maldives, working in partnership with Judicial Service Commission, Department of Judicial Administration, Employment Tribunal and the Australian Government, today handed over digital devices to the judicial entities and the Tribunal - including equipment and tools for video conferencing and live broadcasting of court hearings. UNDP joins hand with partners to ensure justice continues to be dispensed in an appropriate and transparent manner during the crisis.
“Access to justice cannot be placed under lockdown nor can we let it be a victim of COVID-19. Judicial sector and its partners must rise to the challenge and work towards providing the services expected of us,” said Uza.Hisaan Hussain, Chairperson, Judicial Service Commission speaking at the handover ceremony held at the Judicial Service Commission today.
As Judiciaries around the world set in motion business continuity plans amidst the unfolding situation of COVID-19, Maldivian Judiciary set to work on continuing its services to the people remotely, to ensure access to justice and safety for all the people.
“UNDP is honored to support business continuity of essential judicial services. During a crisis, vulnerable people are most at risk, in need of justice and support.  We are pleased to hand over these digital devices to facilitate the vital justice sector work remotely,” said UNDP Resident Representative Akiko Fujii.
This support strengthens business continuity of the services provided by courts and other justice sector institutions during the crisis. In particular, the broadcasting of court hearings will enhance transparency and lead to increased public trust in the justice system.
“As we celebrate the establishment of a wide area network connection between the Department of Judicial Administration and all the courts in the Maldives, it is crucial to remember that the biggest part of this digital transformation is changing the way we think in the Judiciary,” said Dr. Abdulla Nazeer, Judicial Administrator, Department of Judicial Administration.
Joining the ceremony with the Judiciary virtually was a representative from the Australian High Commission to the Maldives, who delivered a message from HE David Holly, High Commissioner. “Australia is proud to support the Government of Maldives in its priority justice sector reforms. Australia is pleased to assist, through partnership with UNDP, in enabling remote judicial services during the pandemic, and to help build public transparency and accountability in the sector.  Australia looks forward to continuing to work with Maldives as an Indian Ocean neighbour.”
Most court processes still require physical submission of forms, which amplifies existing challenges for vulnerable groups in the community such as women, during crises such as COVID-19. This poses challenges particularly for those residing in outer atolls and outside the central region of the Maldives, as appeal courts are situated in the capital city Malé. Introducing technological solutions to court processes can address geographical challenges, bridge the gap between courts and communities, and provide speedy and efficient justice services to the public.
“I understand that making courts open and accessible is one of the key priorities of the newly appointed Supreme Court Bench. I believe the webcast of the hearings will bring Courts closer to the people. This is a step towards increasing public trust and confidence. UNDP is committed to continuing support to the Maldives in achieving SDG 16, which is focused on Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions,” said Akiko Fujii.
Digital devices were also handed over to Employment Tribunal later in the day. “Employment Tribunal expresses gratitude to the generous assistance afforded by UNDP to alleviate the unforeseeable challenges posed by the COVID-19 Pandemic. The digitalization of Tribunal’s hearing rooms would ensure uninterrupted service to the people of Maldives. We look forward to the continued co-operation and partnership of UNDP to enhance the capacity building initiatives of Employment Tribunal,” said Hassan Ibrahim, Member of the Employment Tribunal.
The digitalisation items were supplied as part of UNDP’s COVID-19 Integrated Response Offer 1.0, which supports the health emergency measures as well as longer-term socio-economic recovery. Under its Integrated Governance Programme, in partnership with the Australian Government, UNDP works closely with justice sector institutions to enhance access to justice and human rights, and to increase citizen participation for a more effective and inclusive governance system to achieve SDG 16.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114068-closing-geographical-gap-maldives-judiciary-continue-justice-services-people-remote-islands




Date: 29 August 2020
Title: Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) Equipment Handover Ceremony for Maldives
Content: 29 August 2020
On 29 August, UNODC GMCP officially handed over equipment to the Maldives National Defence Force Coast Guard (MNDF(CG)) to strengthen its Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) capabilities in order to ensure maritime safety and security. The event was held in Villingi island, commonly referred to as Villimale', where the facilities of the Maldives Rescue Coordination Centre are located, currently also housing the MNDF(CG)'s operations centre. The equipment provided include 18 monitors, 9 workstations, 13 mice and keyboards, 4 USB-C docks, 4 laptops and 1 high-performance base station with antenna to improve communications arrangements. The ceremony was attended by the Minister of Defence, the Ambassador of Japan to Maldives, the Commandant of the MNDF(CG), the Head of Office of UNODC in Maldives and a representative of UNODC GMCP.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/113051-maritime-domain-awareness-mda-equipment-handover-ceremony-maldives




Date: 25 August 2020
Title: Rapid Livelihood Assessment on Impact of COVID-19 in Maldives Launched
Content: 25 August 2020
The final report of the Rapid Livelihood Assessment, to understand impact of the COVID-19 crisis in the Maldives, has revealed the immediate and widespread impact on employment and livelihoods - hitting the most vulnerable the hardest, with a significant impact on Micro-, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs).
The COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing economic downturn has been unprecedented at many levels, with repercussions felt across sectors from tourism to trade. The Government of Maldives carried out a preliminary assessment in early June, which provided an understanding of the impact on livelihoods and businesses, to facilitate a quick economic response. This final Rapid Livelihood Assessment Report which followed the preliminary assessment is aimed at assisting the Government in effectively transitioning from immediate response policies to a medium to long-term recovery agenda,  to achieve the Strategic Action Plan of the Government and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
“The COVID-19 pandemic was a fast-evolving situation, requiring immediate policy measures based on available information at that point in time. The UNDP Rapid Assessment was integral information to the initial economic relief response; and would be so in the future as well in our recovery efforts to create a coordinated and focused approach to build back stronger and more resilient employment and livelihoods,” stated Uz. Fayyaz Ismail, Minister of Economic Development.
The assessment is commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Development, and the Government of Maldives, with support from UNDP Maldives. The final rapid assessment delivers a deeper understanding of the extent of the COVID-19 crisis on the Maldives economy, and explores in-depth the impact on employment and MSMEs.
UNDP Maldives provided technical leadership in the process, in close collaboration with relevant government and non-government partners – including private sector partners – drawing from global experience in carrying out similar impact assessments during crises.
“The impact of COVID-19 on Small Island Developing States, like the Maldives, is more severe because of the country’s high dependence on tourism and the import of oil and food. The severe economic and social impacts of the pandemic thus hit the country early and hard before the virus directly did,” said Kanni Wignaraja, Assistant Secretary-General and UNDP Regional Director for Asia-Pacific, in her keynote address, at the event.  “COVID-19 forces us to revisit unsustainable development pathways. We have an opportunity to make different choices now, including lowering dependency on fossil fuels and taking a bold leap forward to invest in peoples’ lives and livelihoods as co-joined drivers of progress.”
The following outlines some of the key findings of the final assessment:
·         The impact of the crisis on employment was immediate and widespread, with the tourism sector being the first to absorb the economic shock from the crisis.
·         Key employment impact was in the form of redundancy, no pay or reduced pay: data for all sectors indicated that 44 percent reported redundancy/complete loss of income, 24 percent reported no pay leave, and 32 percent reported receiving partial pay. A majority of people affected work in service areas, in lower-paying categories, or are self-employed.
·         Unemployment risks increase at the end of the initial stage of the crisis from the April to June period: slow tourism sector recovery poses a risk of a rapid increase in unemployment.
·         Immediate and substantial income loss was experienced by the employed population: data from the JobCenter showed that, of the total cases reported across all economic sectors, 68 percent faced complete income loss while 38 percent reported reduced pay at the time of reporting. It is estimated that while a majority of employees -- who were working at resorts and were retained and received partial pay during the period April-June 2020 -- have lost more than 70 percent of their monthly income compared to pre-COVID-19 levels. According to employment complaints registered in the JobCenter, 2,400 tourism sector employees faced income insecurity as a result of the crisis, which is estimated to result in an average income loss of more than MVR 30 million rufiyaa ($1.9 million) per month, for tourism sector employees. More than half of the employment complaints in the JobCenter were from people under the age of 30.
·         Groups most vulnerable to facing early employment loss include: young people, employees on probation contracts, third-party contract employees of resort establishments, casual migrant workers, the self-employed, and freelancers and community vendors.
·         Women were disproportionately affected: Despite the low number of women reporting employment complaints to the JobCenter, redundancy and complete loss of income was higher for women than men. Increasing unemployment pressures may push these young women out of the labour force permanently or may prevent young women from entering the labour force altogether.
·         Impacts on MSME operations revealed disruption to businesses, supply disruptions, impacts on cost of operations, loss of sales and revenue, impact on cashflow, and employment adjustments made by MSMEs. Interviews with MSMEs indicated that a small proportion of businesses said that they can manage cashflow up to six months.
·         Challenges to doing business in the new normal included; barriers to access finance, limited access to business support services, unmet skills requirements in areas of business management, slow technology uptake, limited scale of transition to green/environmentally friendly technology, and weak enforcement of laws that disadvantage MSMEs.
·         COVID-19 also showed adaptation by businesses, including opportunities for innovation: the crisis opened doors for new opportunities, especially for women, introduced new ways of doing business, and brought about shifts in behaviour and consumption patterns.
“It is critical that young people and women are not kept out of businesses or opportunities for future jobs, as a result of the COVID-19 impact,” said Akiko Fujii, UNDP Resident Representative in Maldives. “This is the time to invest in them to acquire unmet skills and to focus on the potential of the MSME ecosystems to move towards blue and diversified economic development.”
The assessment highlighted that the duration and extent of the crisis, as well as the uncertainty over recovery, will play a central role in determining the impacts to businesses, and the knock-on effects on households and community.
The assessment outlines recommendations to ‘Build Forward Better, Bluer and Greener.’ It is focused on mitigating the short-term negative impact on employment and MSMEs, due to the COVID-19 economic crisis. It also proposes an economic recovery framework that will be implemented in the medium to long term, taking advantage to convert existing economic vulnerabilities into opportunities for the future.
For more on the findings and recommendations of the Rapid Livelihood Assessment on the Impact of the COVID-19 Crisis in the Maldives visit: https://trade.gov.mv/news/med-undp-rapid-livelihood-assessment-report-summary-and-full-report25082020
https://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/librarypage/poverty-reduction/rapid-livelihood-assessment-impact-of-covid-19-crisis-in-the-maldives.html
Read Dhivehi Press Release Here
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114062-rapid-livelihood-assessment-impact-covid-19-maldives-launched




Date: 19 August 2020
Title: Launching of UN75 Dialogues in Maldives
Content: 19 August 2020
United Nations in Maldives officially launches the activities of the biggest global campaign to mark the 75th Anniversary of the United Nations. The virtual event was initiated by the UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Catherine Haswell, in attendance of her Excellency the First Lady, Ministers of the Cabinet, Ambassadors and colleagues of the diplomatic community, UN colleagues, senior officials from Government institutions, private sector, civil society and other partners this morning.
As the United Nations is marking this milestone at a time of great upheaval around the world due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the UN75 Campaign will collectively bring people together across borders, sectors and generations to join the dialogue to address global challenges. With a special emphasis on participation of the youth and the most vulnerable, the campaign will aim to encourage open discussions about issues such as pandemics, the climate crisis and reducing inequalities to help Maldives to recover better. This Campaign will include a series of events throughout 2020.
Through the UN75 activities, UN Maldives looks forward to marking the 55th year of Maldives’ membership of the UN by partnering with the Government, private sector, civil society organizations and the public to enhance engagement through virtual dialogues, media and social media platforms. These conversations will seek to identify ways in which Maldives can build back better through multilateral cooperation and investing in inclusive, resilient communities that leave no one behind.
Speaking at the event, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, H.E. Abdulla Shahid reaffirmed the country’s commitment to the principles of the United Nations and reiterated the Government’s support to the UN75 dialogues. He also believes that the UN75 initiatives will help Maldives to narrow gaps and build back better with stronger policies.
The UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Catherine Haswell called on all partners and Maldivians to join the conversation and ensure that the Maldives is represented in the global discussions. She emphasized the importance of countries working together in a positive spirit of multilateralism to tackle global challenges and preserve development gains for all.
UN Maldives expresses sincere appreciation to all our partners for joining the event to kick off UN75 and hopes that the future initiatives under this Campaign will generate ideas and strategies from across the country on the vision that Maldivians have for the future.
2020 also marks the Decade of Action for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Agreed in 2015, Member States agreed the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with 17 SDGs to be achieved by every country, by 2030.  The UN supports the Maldives in making progress towards the SDGs, and more inclusive and sustainable development in the country.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/102372-launching-un75-dialogues-maldives




Date: 05 August 2020
Title: UNICEF Maldives and the United States Join Hands to Support COVID-19 Response
Content: 05 August 2020
UNICEF Maldives, through a $750,000 grant from the United States, is supporting the Government of Maldives’ national COVID-19 response effort, in particular, by providing assistance for schools and community spaces to reopen safely.
“In Maldives, and around the world, the United States is providing high-quality, critical, and meaningful assistance to save lives,” said U.S. Ambassador to Maldives Alaina B. Teplitz.  “Lending a helping hand during the worldwide pandemic is part of our enduring commitment to the health and wellness of Maldivians.”
This $750,000 grant is funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and implemented by UNICEF in collaboration with the Government of Maldives.  The grant will support community engagement, focusing on parents, teachers, children, and adolescents as Maldives plans to reopen schools and public spaces in addition to other services.  It will provide water, sanitation, and hygiene supplies and strengthen effective infection control for the school reopening phase.  The grant will also improve national data collection and analysis tools to support policy decisions for the well-being of Maldivian children and youth.
Dr. Munir A. Safieldin, UNICEF Representative in the Maldives, said, “We thank the United States for this generous contribution at a critical moment in the pandemic.  As lockdown measures are relaxed and services are due to gradually reopen, our efforts need to be scaled up to avoid a new surge of infections.  This support from the United States comes just at the right moment for UNICEF to continue to provide critical support to the Government of Maldives, and it will ensure that some of the most vulnerable people including children and young people are protected from COVID-19.”
This partnership between UNICEF Maldives and USAID is part of a strong and what will be a long-lasting collaboration to support Maldives as it recovers from COVID-19.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/125391-unicef-maldives-and-united-states-join-hands-support-covid-19-response




Date: 22 July 2020
Title: UNICEF delivers critical supplies to support COVID-19 response in the Maldives
Content: 22 July 2020
UNICEF has delivered critical Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) supplies to the Government of Maldives to support ongoing national efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.
Based on the effects of the pandemic on the national economy and the lives of the people, the response efforts are diversified, however, it is pertinent that the protection of health workers and front line workers is ensured by supplying them with PPE as they risk their lives every day to continue collecting samples and working with people who are infected. The supplies handed over consists of 150,690 items worth 7.1 million Maldivian Rufiyaa, includes:
1. Surgical masks 
2. N95 masks 
3. Body bags (infection control) 
4. Face shields (fog-resistant) 
5. Protective goggles 
6. Surgical gowns 
7. Clinical thermometers 
8. Hand sanitizers 
9. Hand soap
More than four months into the emergency response, UNICEF’s support has been flexible and coordinated to meet the requirements of the partners due to the rapid-changing nature of the pandemic. UNICEF’s support to the Government in its response to the COVID-19 emergency includes:
The consequences and impact of COVID-19 go far beyond the initially anticipated public health risks associated with a pandemic, and from what is observed globally and in the Maldives, concerns around lack of access to food, unemployment and limited access to essential services would leave a heavy toll on the positive gains the country has achieved over the decades, especially for children.
Notes to editors
UNICEF’s COVID-19 preparedness and response strategy aims to reduce human-to-human transmission in affected countries and mitigate the impact of the pandemic on children, youth and their care providers, especially for the most vulnerable. UNICEF’s strategy is in line with the WHO COVID-19 strategic preparedness and response plan and the Inter- Agency Standing Committee (IASC) global humanitarian response plan led by the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/125390-unicef-delivers-critical-supplies-support-covid-19-response-maldives




Date: 18 July 2020
Title: Vice President Presented with Dhivehi Translation of ‘The Nelson Mandela Rules’ by the UN Resident Coordinator
Content: 18 July 2020
The United Nations Resident Coordinator to the Maldives, Ms Catherine Haswell, has presented a Dhivehi translation of 'The Nelson Mandela Rules' to Vice President Faisal Naseem. The ‘Nelson Mandela Rules’ are named in honour of South Africa’s first Black President, who was imprisoned for twenty-seven years, for his anti-apartheid activities, by the then apartheid regime. The rules outline a comprehensive list of minimum-standards relevant to the just and humane treatment of prisoners.
The Vice President stated that it was his honour to receive this book on Nelson Mandela’s birthday. He expressed that Mr Mandela is a towering and inspirational figure, whose example many global democratic practitioners strive to emulate. He added that he himself strongly admires the former South African President and activist.
The UN Resident Coordinator spoke in praise of the ‘Nelson Mandela Rules’ and expressed her firm view that it is important for all countries to adhere to them in their treatment of prisoners. She highlighted that the principles contained in them are widely referred to international standards, in determining whether countries’ detention facilities, and treatment of prisoners, align with global best practices on human rights. She expressed that she as well as UN resident staff are keen to engage with the Government in the area of prison reform.
Warmly acknowledging her remarks, Vice President Faisal Naseem stated that President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih’s Government prioritizes prison reform and the implementation of a justice system that gives precedence to rehabilitation and reintegration. He detailed some of the Government’s ongoing work in that regard, highlighting its efforts to provide education and job training opportunities to prisoners.
Vice President Faisal Naseem was accompanied at the meeting by the Minister of Home Affairs, Imran Abdulla.https://presidency.gov.mv/Press/Article/23501
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/102381-vice-president-presented-dhivehi-translation-%E2%80%98-nelson-mandela-rules%E2%80%99-un-resident-coordinator




Date: 16 July 2020
Title: UNODC Supports South Asia in Developing a Regional Network for Practitioners on Preventing Violent Extremism Leading to Terrorism
Content: 16 July 2020
Violent extremism leading to terrorism remains a serious threat to international peace and security. It is neither new nor exclusive of any region, nationality or system of belief.
As a result of previous cross-regional meetings and the recommendations of international experts and Member States, UNODC presented a draft Roadmap for on the development of a South Asian Network on Prevention of Violent Extremism, under the project “Strengthening the capacity of Sri Lanka to prevent and counter terrorism and violent extremism through effective criminal justice responses” funded by Germany.
Working towards the establishment of the regional Network, UNODC’s Terrorism Prevention Branch delivered an online regional consultation meeting with practitioners from Bangladesh, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka, working in the field of preventing violent extremism (PVE). The aim of the event was topromote the development of a PVE Network for South Asia and partnerships between the public sector, local communities and civil society organizations for preventing and countering violent extremism leading to terrorism.
The online meeting, which took place on 15-16 July 2020, was opened by Brigadier General Zakariyya Mansoor, Director General of the National Counter Terrorism Centre of Maldives (NCTC) together with His Excellency Mr. Jörn Rohde, German Ambassador for Sri Lanka and the Maldives, and Mr. Sergey Kapinos, Representative of UNODC’s Regional Office for South Asia.
During the consultation, practitioners discussed the potential benefits of a regional PVE Network for South Asia. National counterparts also expressed their desire to further adapt the roadmap to their particular national needs, as well as to request further technical assistance from UNODC in the process
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/113047-unodc-supports-south-asia-developing-regional-network-practitioners-preventing-violent




Date: 09 July 2020
Title: Signing of the Joint SDG Fund and the UN COVID-19 Response & Recovery Multi Partner Trust Fund
Content: 09 July 2020
(9 July 2020, Male’): The Government of Maldives and the United Nations in the Maldives signed two project documents today, at a ceremony held at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The projects were signed by His Excellency Abdulla Shahid, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Government of Maldives and Ms. Catherine Haswell, UN Resident Coordinator, on behalf of the UN in Maldives.
The first of this partnership is funded by the Joint SDG Fund and will be implemented jointly by the Government, UN Agencies, Civil Society Organizations, private sector and other partners. This 2- year project will support the operationalization of an Integrated National Finance Framework (INFF) process in the country. With a total cost of US$ 1.4 million, this initiative is aimed at strengthening the financial planning process and improving the targeting of financing towards the priority areas of climate action and gender responsive and equitable social sector service delivery. This project will deliver long-term development benefits to the Maldives and contribute towards the inclusive 2030 Agenda and the pledge of leaving no one behind.
The second project is the successful joint resource mobilization by the Government and UN Maldives from the first round of the UN COVID-19 Response and Recovery Multi-Partner Trust Fund, amounting to US$ 360,000. This project aims to improve the national response towards vulnerable groups, by expanding mental health and psycho social support services available to the population and by increasing the preparedness of the Home for People with Special Needs. The Government and UN Agencies will partner with Maldivian Red Crescent and other partners for the next 5 months for the successful implementation of this project.Speaking at the event, Minister Shahid thanked the UN for its valuable support to the Maldives in providing much needed and timely assistance to the most vulnerable in our society, especially as we enter the recovery phase of the COVID-19 pandemic, with the opening up of our borders and the easing of lockdown measures.
The UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Catherine Haswell reiterated the UN's commitment to assist Maldives in recovering better from the impacts of the pandemic and accelerate the achievement of the 2030 Agenda. She also expressed hope that the partnerships signed today will enable the development of stronger policies to create more inclusive and resilient communities that leave no one behind.
As the Maldives seeks to build back better, the Government of Maldives and the United Nations endeavors to address the challenges to sustainable development and enhance the country’s capacity to meet the needs of the most vulnerable. The Government and UN will closely monitor the targets of the joint programmes and maximize efforts to accelerate the achievement of the 2030 Agenda.
ENDS
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/102434-signing-joint-sdg-fund-and-un-covid-19-response-recovery-multi-partner-trust-fund




Date: 01 July 2020
Title: ‘Youth Vision – An Art Workshop’ Concludes
Content: 01 July 2020
Today marked the culmination of ‘Youth Vision – an Art Workshop’ –  a series of virtual art camps held over two successful workshops, where 50 Maldivian youth from across the country were guided and mentored to create an art piece that reflects their own personal stories and lived experiences. The work of the participants is being showcased in a virtual exhibition launched at the closing ceremony of the event held this afternoon.
‘Youth Vision – An Art Workshop’ is an initiative by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Maldives, in collaboration with the Ministry of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment, European Union and Ooredoo Maldives.
‘We are living through challenging times but the light at the end of the tunnel seems bright. Dear youth, my message to you is go out there, explore the opportunities; the world is now connected more than ever. Don’t give up, because you are the leaders whom we are counting on to pass the torch,’ said Mr. Ahmed Irash, Registrar of NGO’s at the Ministry of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment.
With the aim to promote physical and mental well-being of young people amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the virtual art camps targeted at youth between the age of 16-25 years of age, aimed to create a space for young people to meaningfully engage with each other while building their leadership and critical thinking skills. Using art as a means to spark conversations, the art camps provided a safe space to help young people engage in respectful dialogue about important societal issues.
‘The European Union is proud to support initiatives such as the Youth Vision: Art Workshop, as part of our larger efforts to build community resilience and promote social cohesion through our ongoing EUR 1 million project. We are pleased to partner with UNDP Maldives, the Ministry of Youth, Sports, and Community Empowerment, and Ooredoo Maldives to successfully hold virtual workshops, and launch this virtual exhibition today,’ stated Mr. Thorsten Bargfrede, Deputy Head of Mission of the European Union.
Art kits and secure 3G connections were freely provided to all participants of the art camps, which helped eliminate obstacles, making the workshops a more inclusive and accessible space for everyone.
‘Ooredoo Maldives is delighted to be a partner for Youth Vision: Art Workshop, that has provided youth the opportunity to share their views on important societal issues via art. We believe that it is important for youth to be able to share their opinions in a safe space,’ said Mr. Hussain Niyaz, Acting Chief Commercial Officer, Ooredoo Maldives.
The workshops were divided into two correlating parts: Awareness and capacity-building sessions and basic art lessons. Youth explored the themes of job security and livelihood, environment, leadership, violence and abuse, social cohesion and peace through the sessions. In the focused art component, participants experimented with different creative mediums such as multimedia, photography, creative writing, 2D art and mixed media.
‘Being able to create art with other people was eye-opening as I got to connect with people I had never met before. It was interesting learning about their experiences, values, and watching them be transformed into beautiful artwork. During a time as challenging as this, the workshops created an open and encouraging atmosphere not only for us to share our thoughts and emotions but also to connect with other people who have been in similar situations,’ participant Imaan Suhail summed up her experience of the art camps.
‘It is our hope that these workshops and experiences have given all of you the space to think critically, share openly and develop a sense of community and understanding. Only then will we be able to pave our way towards more cohesive, caring and resilient communities,’  Ms. Yasmeen Rasheed, Assistant Resident Representative of the Governance Programme of UNDP Maldives.
Virtual exhibition: https://www.emmenge.com/maldives-stories/ekaniekuga
Youth Vision: An Art Workshop Blog: https://www.emmenge.com/maldives-stories/ywblog2020
More about Youth Vision: An Art Workshop: https://www.mv.undp.org/content/maldives/en/home/presscenter/articles/2020/YouthVisionArtCamp2020.html
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114124-%E2%80%98youth-vision-%E2%80%93-art-workshop%E2%80%99-concludes




Date: 30 June 2020
Title: WHO, UNDP work together with Ministry of Health to provide COVID-19 testing supplies
Content: 30 June 2020
The handing over is timely as the country gradually reopens the economic activities as of July. The first 5,000 GeneXpert COVID-19 tests were handed over to regional hospitals via the Ministry. The tests will simplify the COVID-19 testing process and is a vital tool for the geographically dispersed islands of the Maldives, where testing capacities are limited.
Currently, the only test that can be performed to diagnose COVID-19 outside capital Malé is GeneXpert. COVID-19 testing through GeneXpert is possible because there is one 4 module and six 2 module machines in the country. At present, the GeneXperts are being mainly used to detect tuberculosis (TB). Availability of the SARS-COVID-2 cartridges will enable testing in Shaviyani Atoll Hospital, Ungoofaaru Regional Hospital, Baa Atoll Hospital, Gaafu Alif Atoll Hospital and Dr. Abdul Samad Memorial Hospital, and increase testing capacity in Kulhudhuffushi Regional Hosotal and Gan Regional Hospital.
Aligned to the national response plan, the handover of the cartridges will advance the country’s response to COVID-19. In addition, UNDP is working with WHO in procuring Personal Protection Equipment (PPEs) to support and equip the Government of Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114067-who-undp-work-together-ministry-health-provide-covid-19-testing-supplies




Date: 30 June 2020
Title: Prison Health is Public Health: UNODC supports COVID-19 preparedness and responses in prisons in Maldives
Content: 30 June 2020



Across the world, the COVID-19 global pandemic has highlighted the extreme vulnerability of people in places of detention. Especially, the transmission pathways for the novel coronavirus poses particular risks to confined populations, such as those in prisons, where physical distancing is a significant challenge and, in most cases, quite impossible. This vulnerability is exacerbated by the weaker health profile of prison populations. Fair, humane and holistic prison management response similarly requires an equitable health care response, guided by internationally acceptable standards of response and care.
The Government of Maldives recognizes the importance of prison health in their commitment to align prison management with the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (the Nelson Mandela Rules). In order to support the Maldives Correctional Service (MCS) in these capacities and enhance the rule-of-law based approach to countering terrorism, UNODC began delivering the project “Support to Maldives on Counter-Terrorism”, in partnership with INTERPOL and with funding by the European Union.
As part of UNODC’s technical support to the Government’s prison health response to COVID-19, UNODC Regional Office for South Asia (ROSA), in coordination with the Ministry of Home Affairs Maldives and MCS, organized a 1-day online training on Tuesday, 30th June 2020 on the prevention and containment of viruses in places of detention.
In his opening remarks, Mr. Sergey Kapinos, Regional Representative, UNODC ROSA, addressed the critical nature of prison health. “Good prison health is good public health. In pandemics such as COVID-19, we must not forget prisoners, as well as prison officials tasked with their safe, secure and humane custody. We must not leave anyone behind in our social protection response,” he said.
The training was delivered by UNODC consultant Mr. Fredrick Holmgren, Senior Prison Expert, with the support of Ms. Aidah Mnyolomo, Rehabilitation and Reintegration expert from Kenyan Prison Service. The training focused on: the importance of integrating the health of populations in closed settings within the national public health response; enhancing the capacity of prison staff and medical staff working in prisons; information on international standards; and knowledge exchange through the sharing of best practices on prison management from Sri Lanka, Kenya and Sweden in crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic.
Discussions between UNODC experts and participants centred around the importance of: contingency plans to ensure an effective response to a COVID-19 outbreak in prisons; implementation of prison health strategies and guidelines; the uninterrupted availability of personal protective equipment (PPE); and capacity building for prison officers and medical officers. In particular, prison officers from various prisons across the country shared the challenges they have experienced because of the limited contact with families during lengthy periods of quarantine in island prisons.
During her intervention, Ms. Catherine Haswell, United Nations Resident Coordinator for Maldives, highlighted “This training from UNODC comes at a critical time and supports the national response to COVID-19, especially in prison settings, to protect inmates and officers of the Maldives Correctional Service. It is equally pertinent to stress the importance of psychosocial support, both for people in prisons, already denied of their liberty, as well as the officers working in detention facilities".
Government dignitaries, Mr. Ahmed Mohamed Fulhu, Commissioner of Prisons, Maldives and Mr. Tholath Raufuddeen, Director General, Ministry of Home Affairs were represented in the key interventions to officiate the online training.
Over 40 prison officers and medical officers working in prisons in the Maldives within MCS benefited from the training. UNODC will share with the Government a Dhivehi (local language) translation of UNODC Guidelines on Viruses in Places of Detention, with the support of identified national counterparts and funding by the European Union.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/113038-prison-health-public-health-unodc-supports-covid-19-preparedness-and-responses-prisons




Date: 11 June 2020
Title: Government of Maldives and UNDP formalize the ‘Sustainable Economic Empowerment and Development for SMEs’ project to provide economic rehabilitation amidst COVID-19, supported by Government of Japan
Content: 11 June 2020

The Sustainable Economic Empowerment and Development for SMEs (SEEDS) project was signed today. Prioritizing support to households that have been directly affected, the project aims to mitigate the negative impacts of the COVID-19 crisis in the Maldives and will assist at least 2,000  Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) through the Business Center Corporations’ outreach initiatives, as well as 250 smallholder farmers to improve food production. This economic diversification project was formulated to respond to the initial findings of a rapid livelihoods assessment jointly conducted by the Government of Maldives and UNDP, to understand the impacts of COVID-19.
“The SEEDS project is an important initiative in the country’s efforts to kick-start the economy after the COVID-19 crisis. There is an utmost requirement to strengthen the resilience of the Maldivian economy, especially in primary sectors such as Agriculture. The project will support the current efforts to strengthen food security, local production; and also improve human and technical capacity to reinforce and complement the current recovery roadmap plans,” said Minister of Economic Development, Uz. Fayyaz Ismail.
The Ministry of Economic Development and Ministry of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture signed the project document for the nine-month project together with the United Nations Development Programme, that will promote economic diversification through empowered MSMEs and create a new generation of agri-businesses that are innovative, productive and practice environment-friendly agriculture.
“One of the key challenges that we face in terms of agricultural sustenance and growth is the difficulty of transportation of agricultural inputs and produce to markets. To reduce dependency on imports of agricultural produce, Maldives is forced to increase its production to reach targets of import substitution. In order to face these challenges head on, farming in Maldives is in need of rapid transformation and incorporation of modern climate-smart practices that require technical precision,” said Minister of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture, Zaha Waheed speaking at the signing ceremony held at the ministry.
The project will be implemented together with the Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture, Maldives Fund Management Corporation, Agro National Corporation, Business Center Corporation, Housing Development Corporation and Maldives Polytechnic. The project is a part of UNDP global programme, with an allocation of $1,449,360 to support the Maldives, which will commence in June 2020. The project is generously supported by the Government of Japan and implementing partners will collaborate with the private sector and civil society, to tap into cutting-edge green technology for quick and effective economic recovery.
‘We are excited to be part of the new generation that will shape Maldives’ economic diversification. We expect youth and women to bring new ideas and actively participate in transforming the landscape. Technologies for low carbon and nature-based businesses exist. All we need is to grab the opportunities and make it work,’ said UNDP Resident Representative, Akiko Fujii.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114074-government-maldives-and-undp-formalize-%E2%80%98sustainable-economic-empowerment-and-development




Date: 03 June 2020
Title: UNODC and Judges of Maldives address Adjudication, Justice and Human Rights in Terrorism Cases
Content: 03 June 2020
While the spread of COVID-19 has restricted travel and kept people at home, it has not curbed the judiciary’s commitment to justice. However, fair and effective adjudication requires independence, ethics and specialized knowledge, and dedicated tools to ensure these principles are upheld. This is especially true in terrorism cases.
The Strategic Action Plan 2019-2023, drafted by the Government of Maldives to outline the developmental targets and priorities for the five-year period, identifies rule of law and judicial reform as a Government priority, highlighting their recognition of the importance of a fully functioning and well-equipped judicial system.
In order to support the judiciary in strengthening these capacities and enhancing a rule-of-law based approach to terrorism adjudication, UNODC began delivering the project “Support to Maldives on Counter-Terrorism”, in partnership with INTERPOL and with funding by the European Union.
Based in part on recommendations developed during assessment visits of the United Nations Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate (CTED) to Maldives in which UNODC’s Terrorism Prevention Branch (UNODC/TPB) participated, this initiative aims at increasing the institutional capacity of Maldives to prevent and respond to terrorism by strengthening a rule-of-law-based approach to counter-terrorism adjudication and enhancing the capacity and specific technical knowledge of judges to adjudicate terrorism cases.
Mr. Thorsten Bargfrede, Deputy Head of Mission of the European Union Delegation to Sri Lanka and the Maldives said, “Pleased to kick-off our first meeting to review and adapt the regional toolkit for judges to the needs of the Maldives. The European Union, together with UNODC and INTERPOL, will continue to support the Maldives in its counter-terrorism and judicial reform efforts. The European Union and the United Nations will also continue to promote respect for human rights and the rule of law while combatting terrorism and security challenges.”
On 3 June 2020, UNODC in close cooperation with CTED organized an online consultative meeting for the judiciary of Maldives under the framework of the initiative. Two United States District Court judges participated as subject-matter experts and introduced over 30 judges of Maldives to the “South Asia Regional Toolkit for Judges: Supporting the Development of National Bench Books for the Effective Adjudication of Terrorism Cases”.
The regional toolkit, developed by CTED with the active support and engagement of judges from all South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries and their implementing partner, the Global Center on Cooperative Security, provides practice-oriented guidance to judges and judicial training academies of SAARC countries on the foundations for effective adjudication, judicial management of proceedings and international cooperation in terrorism matters in the South Asia region.
“As the threat of terrorism looms in South Asia, the judiciary must continue to be supported to ensure justice is done” said Mr. Sergey Kapinos, Representative of the UNODC Regional Office for South Asia. “Only with the application of international human rights norms, standards and good practices by the judiciary can a country be truly effective in countering terrorism. Therefore, UNODC and our partners remain committed to providing judges with the tools they need to uphold the rule of law in their national terrorism cases.”
During the meeting, discussions focused on tailoring the regional toolkit to the specific context, procedures and legal frameworks of Maldives and the national counter-terrorism challenges identified by the country’s judiciary. UNODC will now begin drafting the tailored toolkit with the support of identified national counterparts and funding by the European Union.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/113034-unodc-and-judges-maldives-address-adjudication-justice-and-human-rights-terrorism-cases




Date: 10 May 2020
Title: Innovation for COVID-19: Miyaheli 2020 Held
Content: 10 May 2020
This year’s social innovation camp, ‘Miyaheli’ concluded last night, with top five winners announced at an awards ceremony streamed live. This first virtual Miyaheli held in response to the COVID-19 pandemic brought together over 70 participants from all across the Maldives, who were guided by mentors to create innovative ideas to aid the nation in its response and recovery efforts during the time of the crisis.
Five winning ideas were selected out of proposed 11 ideas, after evaluation by a panel of five judges;
·         Visnun Thari – proposes a local, relevant and educational YouTube channel to engage children in a meaningful way to learn and try new things with their family, while social and physical distancing.
·         Pari Help – proposes a silent solution to alert police to save people from abuse and harassment.
·         Holhuashi – proposes a public chat room for people to visit, premised around the concept of an island’s holhuashi.
·         Binheyo – a concept to provide people with equipment and expertise to farm from the comfort of their own homes and connect farmers to livelihoods opportunities.
·         Ehee – proposes to make a website that allows public to easily access doctors from the comfort of their homes during COVID-19 lockdown.
The winning ideas will receive seed funding and mentorship in accordance with their proposed budget and requirements, to refine and bring the ideas to life.
Ooredoo Maldives and UNDP Maldives teamed up with Ministry of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment and the National Youth Council in this 5th cycle of the series, which was held entirely online from May 7-9, 2020. The awards ceremony was presided by the Minister of Youth, Sports and Community Empowerment, Ahmed Mahloof, CEO of Ooredoo Maldives, Najib Khan and UNDP Maldives Resident Representative Akiko Fujii.
“Participants at Miyaheli, especially youth, have proven that they are more than ready for this social innovation challenge. I thank youth for their active contributions to the social sector and development of the country by being at the forefront during this difficult time of COVID-19,” stated Ahmed Mahloof, Minister of Youth, Sports and Community Development.
Alluding to the success of the virtual set-up of Miyaheli, Najib Khan, CEO of Ooredoo Maldives said that everyone coming together through technology during this difficult time is evidence that humankind can overcome any difficulty.
This year’s Miyaheli was focused on addressing particular challenges arising from the crisis, such as:-
1.       Supporting the most vulnerable and at-risk people (elderly, people with disabilities, migrants and people experiencing any form of violence)
2.       Supporting Business and Industries (particularly MSMEs and informal sector, supporting existing industries adapt and expand, and diversifying the economy)
3.       Enhancing social connectedness and cohesion (coping with social isolation, helping access psychosocial support and initiatives for digital social connectedness)
4.       Innovation for Health (early detection, response and recovery and prevention), and
5.       Improving daily lives through innovation
“As we aim to Build Back Better and emerge stronger from this crisis, it is with such entrepreneurial thinking and innovation that we can create solutions to the development issues in the country, and accelerate our progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals,” Akiko Fujii, UNDP Resident Representative said thanking partners for the support, and participants for their solutions.

United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/114066-innovation-covid-19-miyaheli-2020-held




Date: 16 April 2020
Title: President Discusses Covid-19 Situation Over Telephone with United Nations Secretary General
Content: 16 April 2020
President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih discussed the ongoing situation regarding the spread of the global pandemic, COVID-19, over the telephone with the United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, tonight at his residence in Mulee’aage. The President commended the Secretary-General for his leadership during this ongoing global crisis, and provided an outline of the measures the Maldives has implemented at the national level to contain the virus. The President also discussed areas in which the United Nations could be of assistance to the Maldives and other Small Island Developing States (SIDS), detailing the challenges faced during the immediate health response phase.
The President briefed the Secretary General on early interventions the Maldives’ Government undertook in response to the reporting of the first positive case on March 7th. The country declared a State of Public Health Emergency last month, and through strict border control, screening and quarantine measures, successfully prevented community spread for over a month. The President appraised the Secretary General that this situation has changed with yesterday’s identification of 3 positive cases in the Greater Male’ Area, with Male’ city currently under lockdown. He emphasised that the Government’s priority remains curbing the spread.
Welcoming the UN’s recent establishment of the ‘Response and Recovery Fund’ to aid low and middle-income economies that have been heavily impacted by the virus’ spread, the President requested the UN’s assistance towards the Maldives. He also highlighted that SIDS such as the Maldives are predominantly dependent on international tourism and trade, and are therefore disproportionately impacted by the measures that have to be imposed to effectively contain COVID-19. In light of this, he welcomed the Secretary-General’s initiatives to restructure debt repayment windows, and to forgive debts, for countries with vulnerable economies.
Ending the call, the President thanked the Secretary-General for taking the time to discuss the ongoing pandemic, and reiterated his gratitude and support for the work the United Nations is doing under the Secretary-General’s leadership in the fight against COVID-19.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/102435-president-discusses-covid-19-situation-over-telephone-united-nations-secretary-general




Date: 16 March 2020
Title: A Coordinated Response to Coronavirus
Content: 16 March 2020
On Wednesday, 11 March 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) characterized the coronavirus (COVID-19) viral disease as a pandemic, but it is a pandemic that can be controlled. Coronavirus (COVID-19) is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus.
Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who heads the UN agency, said, in his statement, “Let me be clear: describing this as a pandemic does not mean that countries should give up.”
The UN Secretary-General urged all countries to take a comprehensive approach tailored to their circumstances – with containment as the central pillar. COVID-19 is affecting thousands of people, impacting countries’ health systems and having widespread social and economic effects. The UN entities working on development, the United Nations Sustainable Development Group, are supporting countries in their preparedness and response plans.
This page convenes sources of information and guidance from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations (UN) regarding the current outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19).
WHO is working closely with global experts, governments and partners to track the spread and to provide guidance to countries and individuals on measures to protect health and prevent the spread of this outbreak.
To stay up to date with the latest information, please visit:
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/98003-coordinated-response-coronavirus




Date: 24 February 2020
Title: #MavesJahaifin: The largest ever Measles and Rubella Vaccination Campaign launched in the Maldives
Content: 24 February 2020
Minister of Health H.E Abdulla Ameen launched the nationwide Maves Jahaifin Measles and Rubella mass vaccination campaign at Aminiya School. The campaign is led and coordinated by Health Protection Agency and the Ministry of Health in partnership with Ministry of Education, Ministry of Economic Development, WHO Maldives and UNICEF Maldives.  This is the largest vaccination campaign launched in the country so far. The launching ceremony was attended by State Ministers and senior officials from Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, WHO Representative Dr Arvind Mathur, UNICEF, Maldivian Red Crescent, students, teachers and media.
During the launch of the Measles and Rubella Vaccination Campaign, Minister of Health H.E Abdulla Ameen and Minister of State for Education Dr Fathimath Naseer handed over the vaccination certifications to the students, teachers and staff of Aminiya School. “The aim of this campaign to complete MR vaccination dosage for 100% of students and other target audiences; everyone working and living in the Maldives.” said H.E Abdulla Ameen, “I recommend parents and students to give importance to fulfilling all vaccine requirements as per national schedule.”
Maldives has been validated for Measles Elimination in 2017 by WHO.  However, in early January 2020; an outbreak has been reported with 12 positives cases as of date.  Per post elimination Outbreak Control and Response Plan, the actions are initiated including activating task force, ring vaccination and community mobilization.  In line with recommendations from Maldives Technical Advisory Group on Immunization, Regional Immunization Technical Advisory Group and WHO; an MR Campaign was proposed with inclusion of Migrant population to bridge the immunity gaps.
“Maves Jahaifin” (in English: “I’ve received my shot”) Campaign therefore targets all Maldivians between the age of 6 months and 40 years, who have not received two doses of Measles-containing vaccines. The campaign will also be further expanded to expatriates living and working in Maldives, irrespective of their age and proof of vaccination. Immunization sessions will be held in schools and public places to ensure wider community reach.
The target number for the Campaign is 410,000 Maldivians and expatriates; making the campaign the largest of its kind in the Maldives so far. The campaign, which will continue for 3 months, was kick startedat Aminiya School; with participation from students, teachers and staff of the school. It is set to be conducted in two phases; phase one from 24th February to 15th March 2020 for people living in greater Male’ Region. The second phase from 15th March to 15th April 2020 targets further expansion to people living in the islands across the nation.
WHO continues to technically support the campaign and all outbreak response and preparedness measures, and has also deployed an international consultant for outbreak investigation and support efforts. Based on scientific evidence, WHO guides the Health Protection Agency to carry forward the campaign effectively.
Measles and Rubella Elimination by 2023 is amongst Regional Flagship priorities for WHO South East Asia. Routine measles vaccination for children, combined with mass immunization campaigns in countries are amongst the key public health strategies to reduce measles cased and related-deaths. WHO recommends immunization for all susceptible children and adults for whom measles vaccination is not contraindicated.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/116410-mavesjahaifin-largest-ever-measles-and-rubella-vaccination-campaign-launched-maldives




Date: 16 February 2020
Title: UN Resident Coordinator presents credentials to the President
Content: 16 February 2020
Ms Catherine Haswell, the United Nations Resident Coordinator to the Maldives, has presented her credentials to President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih at a ceremony held at the President’s Office this morning.
Welcoming Ms Haswell to the Maldives and congratulating her on her appointment, President Solih expressed his confidence that Maldives-UN relations would take more significant strides under her tenure. He also expressed his appreciation of the organisation’s undertakings in the Maldives and highlighted some of the areas of importance.
In this regard, President Solih emphasised the UN’s role in assisting the Maldives in the areas of combatting terrorism and violent extremism, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. The Resident Coordinator noted that building cohesion within the UN programmes to better coordinate the assistance provided by the UN would be one of her priority areas.
Ms Haswell extended greetings to President Solih from Mr António Guterres, the UN Secretary-General, and Ms Amina J. Mohammed, the UN Deputy Secretary-General. Describing President Solih’s Administration’s Strategic Action Plan (SAP) as an ambitious agenda, Ms Haswell assured the UN’s continued support and cooperation towards fulfilling the plan. She further congratulated the President on the Administration’s stand on various issues, including its stance on women empowerment and gender equality.
In conclusion, the President thanked the UN and its agencies for the continued support and assistance to the Maldives and expressed his confidence in strengthening cooperation with a renewed spirit under Ms Haswell’s tenure. The ceremony was attended by Abdulla Shahid, the Minister of Foreign Affairs; Ali Zahir, the Chief of Staff at the President’s Office; and Sabra Ibrahim Noordeen, Secretary, Foreign Relations, at the President’s Office.
https://presidency.gov.mv/Press/Article/23110
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/102376-un-resident-coordinator-presents-credentials-president




Date: 02 February 2020
Title: Maldives ratifies Child Rights Protection Act
Content: 02 February 2020
The United Nations Children’s Fund – UNICEF – congratulates the Government of Maldives for ratifying the Child Rights Protection Act which officially comes into force today.
The Act was ratified on 20 November 2019 at the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC). The new Act marks significant changes in the legal protection of children, as it prohibits marrying any child below the age of 18, prohibits death penalty in case of a child coming in contact with the law, and prohibits child labor.
“This is a milestone towards the fulfilment of children’s rights in Maldives in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC). I am happy to learn that provisions in the new Act task all duty bearers to fulfill these rights under the principles of human dignity, equality, and freedom. These are major gains,” said Mr. Munir Safieldin, UNICEF’s Representative in Maldives.
Those responsible for ensuring the fulfilment of children’s rights are defined as a child’s guardians, the family, the community, and the state. Everyone has a role in ensuring that children are in good health and are protected from violence, neglect and abuse.
UNICEF Maldives welcomes the requirement to establish a Child Rights Council and the position of a Child Rights Ombudsperson, as this will assist the state in making sure no child is left behind.
While the coming into force of a new law is a moment of celebration, the hard work of implementing the new requirements, institutions, and capacity building requirements still lies ahead, including adequate financial, human, and infrastructure resources to fully implement Act 19/2019 as intended.
“UNICEF Maldives looks forward to supporting the implementation of the Child Rights Protection Act to ensure that every child receives the protection and development they deserve,” said Safieldin.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/125393-maldives-ratifies-child-rights-protection-act




Date: 18 December 2019
Title: The Maldives Celebrates the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Century of Advancing Social Justice and Decent Work
Content: 18 December 2019
The centenary celebrations were graced by His H.E. Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, President of the Republic of the Maldives.
The International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nation’s oldest specialised agency, has been marking its last centenary celebration in 2019, paying tribute to social justice and decent work, circling the entire world.
Maldives as the youngest ILO member state in Asia, threw a colourful and symbolic series of events on 16th and 17th December.

H.E. Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, President of the Republic of the Maldives graced the celebrations, handing over a special Maldivian commemorative coin marking 100 years of the ILO to the ILO Country Director for the Maldives and Sri Lanka, Ms. Simrin Singh, and witnessing the signing of an ILO-Maldives partnership MOU, as a sign of a solid partnership between the Maldives and the ILO.
In Maldives, a 150 strong solidarity bike ride through Hulumale Central Park, a song dedicated to the ILO by talented and renowned Maldivian singer, Moosa Samau, flag hoisting of the national flag at the National Art Gallery in the presence of the President, Ministers, diplomats, workers and employer’s representatives marked the ILOs 100th year.
A much anticipated announcement by the ILO Country Director and Minister Fayyaz Ismail of Ministry of Economic Development, confirming the finalisation and formal submission of ILOs analysis and recommendations to set an evidence based minimum wage in the Maldives was made.
Beneficiaries from past ILO projects and diverse governmental, private sector, and workers partners attended the events, sharing their stories of ILO’s engagement in the Maldives.
“The Government of Maldives is delighted to join hands with ILO, in celebrating 100 years of long standing service, in promoting labour standards, social justice, tripartisim and decent work across the globe. We convey our felicitations and well wishes to the Director General, Mr. Guy Ryder and his staff in this commemorative year of celebrations,”
Fayyaz Ismail, Hon. Minister of Economic Development
Commenting on ILO’s centenary, Ms. Simrin Singh, Director – ILO Country Office for Sri Lanka and the Maldives, stated: “The ILO’s mandate is that, universal lasting peace can be established only if it is based on social justice. For the past hundred years, the ILO has worked to build an equitable and just world of work. We are grateful for the support that all our partners in the Maldives have extended to us. As we reflect on our journey of 100 years, we reaffirm our commitment to building a future of work in the Maldives which leaves no one behind.”
Since May 2019, the ILO Country Office has worked on helping the Maldives arrive at its first ever Minimum Wage through robust evidence based analysis and social dialogue. A tripartite Salary Advisory Board, worked closely with ILO experts to present their recommendations to the Honorable Minister on a minimum wage for the Maldives. The recommendations were formally submitted to Minister on the eve of the Centenary celebrations in Male.

The ILO is the only international organisation which is tripartite, where workers and employers enjoy equal standing with governments in representation and decision making. Together they set labour standards, develop policies and devise programmes upholding decent and productive work, in conditions of freedom, equity, security and dignity for all.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175965-maldives-celebrates-international-labour-organization%E2%80%99s-ilo-century-advancing-social-justice




Date: 19 September 2019
Title: Director-General calls for measures against those responsible for 2014 murder of journalist Ahmed Rilwan Abdulla in the Maldives
Content: 19 September 2019
The Director-General of UNESCO today urged measures against the killers of journalist Ahmed Rilwan Abdulla, who had been missing in the Maldives since 8 August 2014 and whose murder was confirmed earlier this month.
“I deplore the sad news of Ahmed Rilwan Abdulla’s murder,” said the Director-General, adding: “This crime is a tragic reminder of the need to protect journalists and I trust that the investigation that revealed Mr Rilwan’s murder will also serve to bring his killers to trial. This is vital as in most such cases impunity prevails, emboldening those who believe that they can get away with gunpoint censorship.”
The Head of the Maldives’ Presidential Commission on Investigation of Murders and Enforced Disappearances on 1 September confirmed that Ahmed Rilwan Abdulla, had been killed. Rilwan, a reporter for the independent news website Minivan News, had received threats via Facebook prior to his disappearance.
UNESCO promotes the safety of journalists through global awareness-raising, capacity building and a range of actions, notably in the framework of the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity.
See also: UNESCO observatory of killed journalists
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175971-director-general-calls-measures-against-those-responsible-2014-murder-journalist-ahmed




Date: 04 August 2019
Title: Manta Air and UNICEF join forces to support skills development for Maldivian young people
Content: 04 August 2019
The partnership between Manta Air and UNICEF, formalized through a memorandum of understanding signed on 1st August 2019, is the first  UNICEF partnership with an operator in the civil aviation industry in the Maldives.
The second decade of life is a time of incredible opportunities — but for far too many young girls and boys, a time of struggle for employability. Many Maldivian young people today are not able to transition to or complete secondary education and are hence not acquiring the skills they need to find future jobs that could bring them, their families, and their communities a brighter future.
This is a gap UNICEF Maldives Office and Manta Air are now trying to fill through a two-pronged approach focusing on skills development and child rights promotion. This innovative partnership therefore aims to support skills development for young people in the civil aviation industry as a new field of potential future employment for young people. Through the partnership between Manta Air and UNICEF, groups of young Maldivian women and men will benefit from 3-month long internship opportunities with Manta Air, aiming to offer the young women and men creative and unique learning and skills-development experience that may open up exciting future work opportunities for them.
Mr. Mohamed Khaleel, CEO of Manta Air, said, “Manta Air is a local airline with 90% of its work force, nationals from the Maldives.  As an airline, our commitment to the industry is to keep building the local capacities needed to further develop and contribute to the growing industry, which caters for over one million tourists annually. We also understand that we have a responsibility to contribute to the development of a new generation of future employees, and what better way to contribute to this than supporting the development of the future of the nation; our children and young people. UNICEF has long-standing contributions to the education and development of children and young people, and we are happy to join UNICEF’s mission of making the world a better place for our children.”
The multi-billion-dollar tourism industry, which is the country’s main  source of revenue, relies heavily on domestic transport infrastructure, especially air travel due to the remoteness of many of the nation’s islands. With an industry that requires multiple talents and a variety of specialized skills, the creation of local expertise is highly important for the future sustainability of the industry, as well as to ensure young girls and boys living in the Maldives don’t miss out on potential employment opportunities in this important sector due to a lack of adequate skills.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/125396-manta-air-and-unicef-join-forces-support-skills-development-maldivian-young-people




Date: 15 July 2019
Title: Maldives certified for Elimination of Mother to Child Transmission (EMTCT) of HIV and Syphilis
Content: 15 July 2019
Another Public Health Milestone for Maldives as WHO Regional Director Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh awarded the certificate of “Elimination of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV and Syphilis to Vice President of the Maldives His Excellency Faisal Naseem. An official plaque and citation was handed over in an official ceremony held in Male to mark this momentous occasion in presence of Hon Health Minster HE Abdulla Ameen, other Cabinet Ministers, members of National Validation Committee for EMTCT, senior officials from different ministries, academia, civil society organizations, UN and international organizations.
By eliminating mother to child HIV and Syphilis, Maldives once again leads with its exemplary record in controlling and eliminating diseases in South East Asia. The country has already conquered Small Pox, Polio, Maternal and Neonatal Tetanus, Leprosy and in the recent years, Malaria, Filaria, Measles and Rubella.
Regional Director for WHO South East Asia Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh awarded the plaque and citation to Vice President of the Maldives His Excellency Faisal Naseem during the ceremony. In the citation, Maldives was commended for public health achievements that have been possible with effective deployment of evidence- based strategies.
“I am pleased to note that WHO has been a steadfast ally in your quest. I commend the efforts of my Country Office team for the technical and operational support through this arduous journey and for their commitment to working with partners at all levels, from the Ministry of Health, National Validation Team down to local NGOs.” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh. “Against the backdrop of Maldives’ significant historical achievements and its ongoing quest to strengthen the country’s health system, it is my great pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, to certify the Maldives to have achieved Dual Elimination of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV and Syphilis.”
The island nation initiated it’s public health measures against HIV long before the first case of HIV infection was diagnosed in the year 1991 as it formally launched its AIDS Control Program in 1987 with strong technical assistance from WHO and support from other partners such as UNDP, UNICEF, UNFPA and the Global Fund.
A unique feature of the Maldives AIDS program has been a total integration of all health services including preventive services into the general health system as all health facilities at all level continue to offer ranges of services critical to the prevention and control of HIV and Syphilis.
This remarkable achievement would not have been possible without the demonstration of strong political commitment by the Government of Maldives, active Community engagement and steady, methodical and rigorous implementation of evidence based and scientifically sound strategies.
Speaking at the ceremony, His Excellency Faisal Naseem Vice President of the Maldives thanked his fellow colleagues, partners, predecessors, front line workers and the community to whom the country owes this major achievement to. He thanked WHO for the support that has been provided over the years and called for continuous efforts by everyone to sustain this achievement.
Around the world, Mother to Child Transmission of HIV account for 9% of new infections and Congenital Syphilis is the second leading cause of preventable still births. While achieving validation of EMTCT is a tremendous accomplishment, maintaining this status is equally important and requires sustained, broad program efforts to prevent new infections in infants, children and adults, which the Maldives has in place. The revised National Strategic Plan for the Prevention and Control of HIV guides efforts to maintain low prevalence and outlined its target for Elimination of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV and Syphilis as an important public health milestone reflecting effective and equitable national policies and services that place people first.
WHO is privileged to rejoice this success alongside Ministry of Health, as a trusted and collaborative partner to the Government of Maldives for over five decades.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/116409-maldives-certified-elimination-mother-child-transmission-emtct-hiv-and-syphilis




Date: 18 June 2019
Title: Maldives: Moment of political hope at risk from environmental and fundamentalist threats to culture, says UN expert
Content: 18 June 2019
Welcoming the country’s renewed engagement with the UN human rights system, the Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights, Karima Bennoune, said after a 10-day visit that the government’s ambitious reform programme could greatly benefit human rights.
Bennoune said in a statement that the negative consequences of having framed Maldivian identity as “homogenous”, and of past failures to adequately teach, preserve and share knowledge about the nation’s arts, culture and history, must be addressed now.
“Such factors have contributed to an increasingly monolithic and foreign interpretation of the Muslim religion and identity, neglecting the specificity of local practice of Islam, the country’s cross-cultural history and the richness of Maldivian island culture,” she said.
“I have heard many worrying reports of extremist positions being advocated, including online and by teachers, and of people being harassed and threatened by those motivated by fundamentalist ideology. Such intimidation shrinks the space for freedom of expression, and for work to protect culture and for cultural diversity. Those who speak out against fundamentalism, including in the fields of arts and culture, need unequivocal support and for their safety to be ensured urgently.”
Bennoune said fundamentalist ideology has already resulted in the recent past in deadly violence against people and attacks against culture – such as the 2012 assault on the National Museum in which important pieces of pre-Islamic heritage were destroyed. “To avoid recurrence, all levels of the Government must repeatedly take a clear stand against such abuses and the ideology which gives rise to them, offer a consistent counternarrative which supports arts and culture and take effective measures to ensure full investigation and accountability,” the expert said.
“Promoting the Dhivehi language, and its dialects, and awareness of Maldivian history and heritage in its complexity and supporting a diversity of Maldivian cultural and artistic practices, especially those dwindling due to stigma, are key to facing these challenges.
“The Maldives also needs to ensure the right of all to take part in cultural life and have access to public spaces, without discrimination, including women, persons with disabilities and expatriates,” Bennoune said. She is concerned about discriminatory cultural attitudes towards such persons which must be tackled, and about the low rate of women’s political representation.
The Special Rapporteur commended the country for its international leadership on climate change and said she is determined to support it and other similarly affected countries at the international level by demanding urgent help from the international community to meet the threat to their survival, including cultural survival. A 15 year-old Maldivian environmental and cultural heritage activist, speaking about the potential loss of local cultural sites, and erosion of his home island, told the Special Rapporteur: “I fear for the survival of my country.” No young person should have to face such fears, Bennoune said.
At the national level, she hopes that the laudable human rights-based approach to climate change in the Maldives will be further implemented, and that the negative impact on culture will be given even greater consideration.
“Culture, traditional knowledge and cultural heritage represent a powerful resource to address the challenges caused by climate change in a human rights respecting manner. They are also important to help define the type of development Maldivians want, and what they wish to transmit to the next generation,” she said.
The Special Rapporteur warmly welcomed the creation of the new Ministry of Arts, Culture and Heritage and stressed that it needs to be fully resourced, afforded capacity-building opportunities and expert staff, and provided with support by relevant international bodies.
“It should consider developing a cultural policy incorporating the cultural rights guarantees in Maldivian law and international standards. A nationwide survey of Maldivian cultural heritage could make a key contribution.
“Everywhere I went, I found that people are eager to participate in building and protecting a vibrant cultural life to enhance social cohesion, address boredom, and afford opportunities for self-expression, especially among youth.”
Bennoune said the Maldives is at a critical crossroads. “The current moment can and should produce a dynamic new emphasis on cultural rights, maximising the potential for the rich Maldivian culture to serve as a resource for sustainable development and promotion of all human rights,” she said.
The Special Rapporteur will present a comprehensive report and recommendations to the March 2020 session of the UN Human Rights Council.
ENDS

United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/100732-maldives-moment-political-hope-risk-environmental-and-fundamentalist-threats-culture-says-un




Date: 21 March 2019
Title: Maldives launches Nationwide HPV Vaccination for Young Girls
Content: 21 March 2019
WHO Maldives supported and partnered with the Government of Maldives in launching the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) Vaccination Campaign for young girls between 10-14 years old in a ceremony held in Thaajuddeen School, Male’. The Nationwide HPV campaign is amongst the Health Pledges of His Excellency President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih for his first 100-days in office, a step in the right direction to eliminate Cervical Cancer. The historic occasion was graced by Chief Guest Minister of Arts, Culture and Heritage Her Excellency Yumna Maumoon, His Excellency Minister of Health Mr Abdulla Ameen, WHO Representative Dr Arvind Mathur, State Ministers of Health, Education, Gender, Family & Social Services, Islamic Affairs, Members of Maldives Technical Advisory Group on Immunization, representatives of civil society and International organizations, parents, teachers and school children.

Maldives launches Nationwide HPV Vaccination for Young Girls
Maldives demonstrates highest level of political commitment as it responds to WHO Director General’s and WHO-South East Asia Regional Director’s call for action to Eliminate Cervical Cancer by launching the HPV Campaign. The introduction of HPV Vaccine marks the historic addition of a new vaccination in the Maldives immunization programme in the last 6-7 years. 

Addressing the ceremony, Health Minister Ameen said cancer is increasing at a worrisome level in Maldives, adding while every family is experiencing effects of cancer, it is important to take preventive measures. He said introducing HPV vaccine will further boost the efforts against cancer. He thanked the partners and WHO Country Office in Maldives for the technical support and work put into making this historic occasion a reality.

Maldives launches Nationwide HPV Vaccination for Young Girls
“I take the opportunity to acknowledge President H.E Ibrahim Mohamed Solih for his visionary leadership and political choice of investing for healthier future generations by ensuring initiation of HPV vaccination as part of 100 days program of his Government- I reiterate that this decision is grounded on robust evidence as the HPV Vaccination is the most cost-effective public health measure against cervical cancer.” said WHO Representative Dr Arvind Mathur in his remarks. “I acknowledge the dynamic leadership of Health Minister HE Abdulla Ameen for ensuring multisectoral partnerships and reaching to communities to ensure participation in HPV Campaign. WHO will walk every step in your journey and endeavor to eliminate cervical cancer.”

Maldives launches Nationwide HPV Vaccination for Young Girls
As part of the agenda, religious leader from Ministry of Islamic Affairs Dr Ibrahim Zakariyya emphasized that public health measures such as vaccination are encouraged in the religion.

Maldives launches Nationwide HPV Vaccination for Young Girls
On the occasion three young girls from Thaajuddeen School received vaccination certificates by Her Excellency Yumna Maumoon. In her speech, she called on the importance of taking preventive measures such as HPV Vaccine for the health of our future generations. She also advocated maintaining a healthy lifestyle and ensuring that children avoid sugary drinks and smoking.

Globally Cervical Cancer affects half a million women and kills quarter of million. One woman dies of cervical cancer every two minutes, making it one of the greatest threat to women’s health. Introduced globally in 2006, the HPV vaccine has been administered to more than 80 million girls across 84 countries. The HPV vaccine provides protection and helps develop immunity before exposure to the virus.

Maldives launches Nationwide HPV Vaccination for Young Girls
The vaccination campaign will be conducted in schools, along with education and information sessions for parents. Once the two-month campaign is successfully conducted, girls will be provided the vaccine when they reach 10 years of age and it will be included in the national vaccine schedule. 

WHO stands committed to support the roll out of vaccination across the country. Together we can change the course of history and join together in making cervical cancer history in the Maldives and beyond.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/116408-maldives-launches-nationwide-hpv-vaccination-young-girls




Date: 08 September 2017
Title: Maldives latest country to join Clean Seas Campaign
Content: 08 September 2017
8 September 2017 – Maldives today joined UN Environment's global campaign to eliminate marine litter and becoming the 26th country globally to do so.
As part of it commitment, Maldives will undertake a national campaign to reduce single-use plastics and look to reduce and intercept plastics in oceans.
The UN Environment CleanSeas campaign, which was was launched in February this year, calls on government to pass policies to reduce plastics, industries to minimize plastic packaging and consumers to reduce plastic use.
“Our oceans both connect us and are key to our survival. We cannot continue to treat them like a rubbish dump. Small island developing countries like Maldives are on the sharp end of the current tide of pollution, and this commitment to Clean Seas sends an important message that enough is enough,” said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment.
“All nations, big and small, must take action.”
Asia Pacific accounts for 60-70 per cent of ocean plastic pollution. Plastics make up 90 per cent of litter in oceans. More than 8 million tonnes of plastic ends up in the oceans annually and costing some $8 billion in damage to marine ecosystems. According to some estimates, at the rate we are dumping items such as plastic bottles, bags and cups after a single use, by 2050 oceans will carry more plastic than fish. Small islands are particularly affected.
Abdulla Ziyad, Minister of State for Environment and Energy, Maldives said that his country is increasingly faced with litter and plastics generated elsewhere and called for regional action to address the issue.
“Marine litter and pollution is indeed a critical area of concern for our region. Addressing this issue requires us to think both at the national level and beyond. Integrated and holistic approaches at the local level, coupled with co-ordinated action at the regional and global level will be the key in making progress towards pollution free, clean seas for all,” he added.
Maldives pledge came at the 2nd Forum of Ministers and Environment Authorities which ended today in Bangkok with governments resolved to move towards a pollution free region, highlighting the urgency of addressing marine litter and microplastics.  It joins Indonesia, Kiribati and the Philippines who earlier committed to the campaign.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/176173-maldives-latest-country-join-clean-seas-campaign




Date: 26 April 2017
Title: Director-General condemns the murder of blogger Yameen Rasheed in the Maldives
Content: 26 April 2017
The Director-General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova, today called on the authorities of the Maldives to investigate the killing of prominent blogger and social media activist, Yameen Rasheed on 23 April.
“I condemn the murder of Yameen Rasheed,” said the Director-General. “Journalists need to be able to work without fear and contribute to informed democratic debate. I call on the Maldivian authorities to ensure that the rule of law is respected and that those responsible for this killing are brought to justice.”
Rasheed maintained a blog, The Daily Panic, on political and social issues. He is reported to have received numerous death threats over the past year. Rasheed died from injuries sustained when he was attacked inside his apartment building in the capital, Malé.
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.” These statements are posted on a dedicated webpage, UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/175972-director-general-condemns-murder-blogger-yameen-rasheed-maldives




Date: 29 April 2016
Title: Senior U.N. Official concludes official visit to the Maldives
Content: 29 April 2016
Mr. Tamrat Samuel, Senior Adviser to the United Nations Department of Political Affairs, has concluded his visit to the Maldives, which began on 16 April 2016.
During the visit, the Senior Adviser held extensive discussions with President Abdulla Yameen Abdul Gayoom, Foreign Minister Dunya Maumoon, other senior government officials, leaders of the main political parties, civil society representatives, business leaders, as well the diplomatic community in Malé and Colombo, Sri Lanka. The discussions focused on the current political situation in the country and issues related to the possibility of convening an all-party political dialogue.
Mr. Samuel was encouraged by the frank, open, and constructive manner in which the exchanges took place and by the opportunity he had to discuss ways in which opposing views could be bridged. While major differences still remain between the parties, particularly between the Government and the opposition, on the way forward to convening an-all party dialogue, all sides have affirmed their desire to hold such a dialogue. The discussions have also produced a few promising areas of possible convergence of views and compromise to end the current stalemate and pave the way for dialogue.
However, there remain significant differences of position, which need to be narrowed. All parties will reflect on the discussions that have taken place with the Senior Adviser’s assistance and further consultations will take place in the near future.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/101883-senior-un-official-concludes-official-visit-maldives




Date: 16 April 2016
Title: On Visit to the Maldives, Senior U.N. Official to Encourage Political Dialogue
Content: 16 April 2016

Mr. Samuel’s visit, which comes as a follow-up to ASG Jenča’s mission in February this year, is aimed at laying the ground for substantive political party dialogue in the interest of attaining long-term political stability and rule of law in the Maldives.
Mr. Samuel will meet with Government leaders, political parties, civil society, and members of the international community.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/101887-visit-maldives-senior-un-official-encourage-political-dialogue




Date: 01 October 2015
Title: Ooredoo Commits to the UN’s Sustainable Development Agenda
Content: 01 October 2015
Ooredoo has pledged its commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“Global Goals”), which aim to eradicate extreme poverty, improve the lives of people and create an all-round healthier world for tomorrow. These are ambitious targets which cannot be achieved without fully leveraging the reach and capabilities of mobile technology, especially in the least developed countries.
Building on the work started by the Millennium Development Goals, implemented 15 years ago, 193 world leaders adopted on 25th September the Global Goals, a series of 17 ambitious goals to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change for everyone by 2030.
The social impact of mobile technology is unprecedented. Driving extraordinary economic growth and new ways of delivering education, health and rural development through an interconnected world of communication and knowledge sharing, information and communication technologies (ICTs) have transformed the world during the past 15 years.
Dr Nasser Marafih, Group CEO, Ooredoo commented: “The Global Goals set an ambitious agenda; one which encourages us, alongside every individual and business, to challenge ourselves in our response.  The reach of mobile technology, particularly into underserved communities, is unprecedented and we know it can help make a direct contribution to nearly all of the issues the goals address.  We are passionate about mobile technology as a tool to effect positive social and economic change.”
Shoko Noda, Resident Coordinator of UN Maldives said: “World Leaders have committed to 17 Global Goals to achieve 3 extraordinary things in the next 15 years. Mobile technology can make a direct contribution to 15 of the 17 Global Goals, both due to its incredible reach and the ability to leverage mobile phones in achieving social good. With the important role that the Mobile sector can play in helping people achieve these Global Goals, we’re very pleased that Ooredoo has joined the taskforce that is helping Maldives to achieve these powerful goals. Ooredoo has been very active in their efforts to make a sustainable social impact, contributing to key initiatives such as Connected Women Program, Child Helpline International (CHI), Humanitarian Connectivity Charter, and we’re happy that they have renewed their commitment to social issues in the Maldives.”
Ooredoo will continue to work hard to stimulate human growth and contribute to the sustainable development of the communities it operates in. Going above and beyond to this ambitious post-2015 agenda, Ooredoo will continue to focus its efforts across its global footprint on the following areas:
Goal 3: Good health
From awareness campaigns to combat serious illnesses to healthcare apps, and specialised humanitarian and disaster response initiatives, Ooredoo offers an immediate response to some of the serious health issues being faced by people in underserved communities across our global footprint.
Goal 5: Gender Equality
The empowerment of women is a serious commitment for Ooredoo, one which sits at the heart of its corporate culture. Ooredoo’s companies are proud to take the lead in providing award-winning services for women in markets, bringing more women online, boosting national GDP and helping create fair and equal access.
Ooredoo is also a committed partner to GSMA’s Connected Women program which accelerates growth of the female digital economy, working to bring significant socio-economic benefits to all women and to the mobile ecosystem of countries such as Indonesia, Maldives and Iraq across their footprint.
Goal 9: Innovation and infrastructure
Through a range of smart solutions and initiatives which drive local innovation Ooredoo is working to close the digital divide, help everyone stay connected all of the time, and power local innovation in each of its markets.
Ooredoo has committed to offer its expertise to the people of the Maldives in their efforts to build next generation urban environments, and will continue to expand their smart city portfolio over the coming months, empowering people with smart sustainable solutions to prevalent issues across the nation.
Specific to the Maldives, Ooredoo will also be focusing on achieving the following goals:
Goal 04: Quality Education
Quality education is the foundation to improving people’s lives and sustainable development. Major progress has been made in increasing access to education, yet bolder efforts are necessary to achieve universal education goals. Ooredoo will work to make quality education accessible for everyone in the Maldives by building on ground-breaking technologies such as Ooredoo Mobile Academy that is already making a significant impact across their footprint.
Goal 13: Climate Action
With Maldives being exceptionally vulnerable to climate change and its effects, Ooredoo Maldives aims to support the strengthening of resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters.
The company will also focus on improving education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning.
Vikram Sinha, Ooredoo CEO said: “Our commitments is to bring about meaningful, innovative solutions to key issues being faced by the people of Maldives in their everyday life. We will also work to raise awareness of the global goals and how the community can take part in our joined efforts to achieve these important goals. Together, we can create a better tomorrow for our communities.”
As the principal driver for connectivity across the developing world, the mobile industry makes an immense contribution to digital inclusion and empowerment for all. Mobile technology can and should play an important role in achieving the Global Goals.
For more info on the Global Goals, please visit http://www.globalgoals.org/.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/101890-ooredoo-commits-un%E2%80%99s-sustainable-development-agenda




Date: 21 April 2015
Title: Laamu Climate Change Forum highlights local perspective on challenges of climate change
Content: 21 April 2015
Held under the theme ‘Climate Resilience and Laamu’, the Forum was attended by 61 council representatives from all communities of Laamu Atoll along with technical experts from UN agencies in Maldives and relevant Government Agencies including Ministry of Environment and Energy, Health Protection Agency, Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture, Local Government Authority, National Bureau of Statistics and National Disaster Management Centre.
The Forum was jointly organized by UN Maldives, Laamu Atoll Council and the Government of the Maldives. It is a key milestone of the UN Maldives’ ground-breaking Low Emission Climate Resilient Development (LECReD) Programme which aims to address the challenges of climate change in Maldives through the integration of low emission climate-resilient development into local planning and governance frameworks.
Discussions were held on the areas of energy security and efficiency, waste management and water security which yielded ‘locally-informed’ guidance on how these sectors could be further developed within the LECReD programme. The Forum also assisted in bringing more focus to the programme’s activities in Laamu Atoll and their intended impact on communities.
The US$9.2 million LECReD programme will be implemented as a collaborative effort by UNDP, UNICEF, UNOPS, UNFPA, UN Women, WHO and FAO. It is the first joint implementation programme undertaken by the UN in Maldives and signals the adoption of a new holistic approach to address localized impacts of climate change in the Maldives.
The 3-year-long UN Joint Programme seeks to contribute to the United Nations Development Assistance Framework by enhancing capacities at national and local levels to support low carbon lifestyles, climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction in Maldives.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/101891-laamu-climate-change-forum-highlights-local-perspective-challenges-climate-change




Date: 20 April 2015
Title: Climate Resilience and Laamu – The first “Laamu Climate Change Forum” convenes in Fonadhoo
Content: 20 April 2015
The two-day Forum entitled “Climate Resilience and Laamu” is being held in Laamu Fonadhoo on 20th and 21st April 2015. This Forum is a key milestone of the UN Maldives’ ground-breaking Low Emission Climate Resilient Development (LECReD) Programme.
This forum marks the beginning in a series of such forums to be held in Laamu Atoll under the LECReD programme and are meant to be platforms to deliberate and share experiences and knowledge in development planning around climate change adaptation. The LCCFs will ultimately identify opportunities presented by climate change to invest in green growth and sustainable livelihood opportunities to pave the way for low carbon lifestyles.
Speaking at the Forum’s opening ceremony held today, Minister of Environment and Energy Mr. Thoriq Ibrahim noted that the LCCF was a unique opportunity for climate change dialogue at the local level.  “ We need more forums like this held across the country where communities can come together at the local level and talk about climate change impact and how to mitigate its effects on our communities,” the Minister said.
“Given the vulnerability of the Maldives to the adverse impacts of climate change, the LCCFs offer platforms to foster local innovation in creating local development plans that can benefit not just us, but also future generations,”  Ms. Shoko Noda, UN Resident Coordinator said during her remarks at the ceremony.
The President of Laamu Atoll Council Mr. Yusuf Amir, in his statement, urged the participants of the Forum to make positive use of this opportunity for the development of the atoll. He also affirmed the support of the Laamu Atoll Council to all participating UN agencies in implementing the programme successfully.
The LECReD Programme is largely driven by the aim of addressing the challenges of climate change in Maldives through the integration of low emission climate-resilient development into local planning and governance frameworks.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/101892-climate-resilience-and-laamu-%E2%80%93-first-%E2%80%9Claamu-climate-change-forum%E2%80%9D-convenes-fonadhoo




Date: 03 March 2015
Title: Maldives introduces injectable Inactivated Polio Vaccine (IPV)
Content: 03 March 2015
Despite the certification of South-East Asia as polio-free in March 2014, the risk persists until the disease is eradicated globally. The universal introduction of IPV is part of a global plan to eradicate polio and secure recent gains towards a polio-free world through stronger immunization systems.
World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF have supported the Government of the Maldives to become the second country in South-East Asia to introduce IPV. Nepal introduced the vaccine in September 2014.
Introduction of at least one dose of IPV into the childhood immunization programme is part of the Global Polio Eradication and Endgame Strategic Plan that aims to complete the eradication, containment and certification of all polioviruses by 2018. All the countries in the world that currently use only the oral polio vaccine (OPV), are now introducing one dose of IPV into the childhood immunization schedule to maximize the protection of children from polio.
Oral polio vaccine has been the key tool for polio eradication since 1988. The WHO South-East Asia region, comprising Maldives and 10 other countries, was certified polio-free on 27 March 2014.  Globally only three countries remain endemic for polio – Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan.
“Until the disease is fully eradicated from the remaining endemic hotspots, the best possible way to protect your children from the risk of contracting polio and life-long paralysis is to use vaccine for developing immunity against the virus,” said Dr Akjemal Magtymova, WHO Representative to the Republic of Maldives. “The introduction of IPV to the routine immunization schedule is a vital step in the journey to securing a polio-free world for all future generations to come.”
UNICEF Representative to Maldives, Alice Akunga, said the introduction of IPV is an important step. “This introduction is a critical development for the global fight to eradicate polio and a healthy future of our children – and is the first step not only to a world free from polio, but ensure that in Maldives, polio does not return, creating an environment where no child will ever be paralyzed by this terrible disease.”
Maldives has been polio-free since 1981 with no indigenous cases detected since then (though there was a single imported case reported in 1994). IPV introduction is the latest step by Maldives that has made tremendous progress in improving child health and survival in the last 25 years. In the last 20 years, under-5 mortality in the country has been significantly reduced – in large part due to improvements in the childhood immunization programme. Maldives achieved universal immunization coverage in 1988 – two years before the target of 1990. These achievements have been thanks to the tireless efforts of community members, the Community Health Workers, and the Government and its partners WHO and UNICEF.
Introduction of IPV will maximize children’s immunity to polio virus, and maintain the country’s polio-free status. IPV has been proven to be an extremely safe and effective vaccine and has been used successfully in developed countries for several decades. It is important to note that IPV is recommended in addition to the oral vaccine and does not replace the oral vaccine.
IPV is administered to children at 6 months of age by intramuscular injection by a trained health worker at established health facilities. The Ministry of Health of Maldives has successfully conducted orientation for all heath workers in all 20 atolls, including islands on IPV administration. The IPV vaccine has been distributed to all atoll and island hospitals, and will be given to children everywhere from today.
United Nations in Maldives
4th Floor, H. Aage
(Bank of Ceylon Building)
Boduthakurufaanu Magu
Male, Maldives
Tel: (960) 3324501
Fax: (960) 3324504
URL: https://maldives.un.org/en/101894-maldives-introduces-injectable-inactivated-polio-vaccine-ipv




