Date: 29 April 2024
Title: The UN’s Central Emergency Response Fund Provides Humanitarian Assistance of USD 1.55 Million to Dzud-Affected Herders in Mongolia
Content: 29 April 2024
Ulaanbaatar – In response to the Dzud Response appeal from the Humanitarian Country Team, the UN’s Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) has approved funding of USD 1.55 million to aid Mongolian herders severely affected by the current dzuds – an extreme winter phenomenon characterized by below-freezing temperatures that blanket grazing areas in deep snow and ice, impacting millions of livestock upon which vulnerable herder households rely for their livelihoods.
The Humanitarian Country Team has identified over 200,000 people in need, with 77,000 of the most vulnerable individuals targeted to receive in-kind and cash assistance. This year’s dzud has resulted in the deaths of more than 7.19 million livestock, driving thousands of herders into dire situations. A study by the National Statistics Office has noted the enduring impacts of dzuds on herders’ livelihoods, as well as on the health and education of their children continue for up to three years.
“The emergency relief assistance will support the most affected herders in addressing their most urgent immediate needs, focusing on safeguarding their health and mental well-being, food and nutrition, and education. We are confident that this joint UN assistance will support the government-led response and provide multi-sectoral support to vulnerable people,” said Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator.
The UN’s assistance will be dispersed through three UN agencies (FAO - $700,000, UNFPA – $350,000, and UNICEF – $500,000) in Mongolia, targeting 12,050 people, including the most affected herders, children, and people with disabilities in rural areas. Responses include cash and voucher assistance, and psychological, educational, and nutritional support, with a focus on livelihood restoration for targeted herder households, particularly vulnerable populations.
Specifically, the humanitarian intervention will be distributed to 72 soums in the nine most affected aimags in Mongolia. Among them, 2000 herder households will receive cash as humanitarian aid to help them recover. Through the facilitation of FAO in Mongolia, over 2 million vaccines for livestock are being distributed to maintain their health and sustain them during the current dzud.
A significant portion of the funds is dedicated to supporting the well-being of herder women and children in rural areas.
UNICEF will provide multiple nutrition supplements to up to 6700 children, while 3300 pregnant and lactating women will receive nutrient supplements. Additionally, UNICEF will supply learning packages to over 2000 children to support their studies.
UNFPA will provide support to over 4000 women, young and adolescent girls, many of whom live in school dormitories away from their homes, with dignity kits containing essential hygiene and feminine products. Much of UNFPA's support will focus on creating safe spaces in rural communities for women and girls affected by natural disasters/emergencies, where they can socialize, and have access to mental health and psychological support, and counselling. Moreover, UNFPA will invest in building the capacity of local health and social workers to strengthen their knowledge and skills in the provision of sexual and reproductive health services, and psychosocial support and to prevent any physical, sexual, and psychological violence.
The UN Mongolia stands with the people and government of Mongolia, offering its collective commitment to responding to and addressing the most urgent humanitarian needs, as well as supporting the country’s long-term development agenda to achieve resilient and sustainable development, leaving no one behind.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/267301-un%E2%80%99s-central-emergency-response-fund-provides-humanitarian-assistance-usd-155-million-dzud




Date: 22 February 2024
Title: Humanitarian Efforts Intensify as Mongolia Grapples with Dzud
Content: 22 February 2024
Mongolia faces a dire situation called dzud – persisting harsh winter conditions that threaten the livelihoods of herder communities nationwide. Around 90 percent of Mongolia’s territory is at high or moderate dzud risk, with temperatures plummeting below -40°C and icy conditions hindering livestock access to pastures.  As of 21 February, the State Emergency Commission reported that livestock mortality had reached 1.5 million.
Mongolian authorities requested the Humanitarian Country Team, consisting of UN agencies, and international and national humanitarian organizations in the country, to support the country’s efforts in better preparedness, anticipatory actions and response to address the forthcoming crisis.
Led by Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator, the HCT has intensified its coordinated efforts to provide vital support to affected herders, in close collaboration with the State Emergency Commission and other government agencies.
The Government’s request underscored the urgent needs of herder households for essential necessities such as food, medical supplies, firewood, coal, and cash assistance.
Responding to the call, the HCT released the Dzud Early Action and Response Plan for 2023/2024 which identifies over 150,000 people in dire need of support, with 33,000 individuals classified as the most vulnerable. The HCT's assistance includes life-saving aid in the form of cash assistance, medical supplies, dignity and hygiene kits, hay and fodder, fuel, and psychological support.
“I am particularly concerned that of these, around 33,400 are women, men, girls, and boys who need urgent humanitarian support and ensure their continuity of access to critical services,” said Tapan Mishra.
Despite significant efforts, the road ahead remains challenging, necessitating continued commitment and cooperation from all stakeholders. With USD 1.8 million already raised to assist herder households, further support is urgently needed. To mobilize the necessary resources, the HCT, through the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), is appealing to the international community for additional assistance.
Tapan Mishra emphasizes the importance of international solidarity and the mobilization of resources to prevent further deterioration of humanitarian needs in Mongolia. Urging generous support for the people of Mongolia, Mishra stresses the critical role of the humanitarian community in addressing the immediate needs and building a more resilient future for the country's rural communities.
In addition to immediate relief efforts, the HCT is prioritizing long-term resilience building by fostering collaboration among the government and international organizations to strengthen humanitarian and development efforts to further mitigate the impact of future crises.
Despite early preparedness actions taken by both herders and the government, solidarity and support from the international community are essential to mitigate risks and ensure the welfare and resilience of Mongolia's population.
Download the Dzud Early Action and Response Plan for 2023/2024
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/261305-humanitarian-efforts-intensify-mongolia-grapples-dzud




Date: 21 November 2023
Title: National Forum on Risk and Standards for Sustainable Development
Content: 21 November 2023
Ulaanbaatar, November 20, 2023 – Today, under the auspices of Deputy Prime Minister S. Amarsaikhan, Mongolia convened the National Forum on Risk and Standards for Sustainable Development, attracting over 1500 participants. The primary focus of the gathering was to underscore the nation's dedication to adhering to standards for achieving risk reduction and minimizing the impacts of disasters on both people and the environment.
In his opening address, President Khurelsukh Ukhnaa emphasized that disaster risk reduction and building resilience stand as key national development priorities. The Deputy Prime Minister echoed these sentiments, stressing the vital role of adhering to standards in effective risk management. He underscored that the absence of standards creates an environment conducive to disasters and threats, potentially hindering progress and development.
Mongolia has witnessed a surge in hazardous events and incidents, particularly in climate-related phenomena, which have increased 2.9 times since 2015. Notably, the number of climate change-related natural disasters has tripled since 1990, with dzud being one of the prominent examples. Over the past 80 years, Mongolia has experienced an intensification of climate change, marked by a 2.25 degrees Celsius increase in the average air temperature – twice the global average. Approximately 77 percent, or 120 million hectares, of Mongolia's territory, is affected by desertification, with half of that classified as severely impacted.
"Realizing and managing these risks is key to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals," remarked UN Resident Coordinator a.i Evariste Kouassi-Komlan, underscoring the imperative for stronger multilateral cooperation and cross-sectoral collaboration. He highlighted that such collaboration would enhance risk management through standardization.
The National Forum, scheduled from November 20 to 22, has drawn active participation from various UN agencies. Their collective aim is to provide comprehensive and multi-sectoral support to strengthen Mongolia's national resilience to disaster risk reduction, ultimately contributing to the broader goal of achieving sustainable development.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/253303-national-forum-risk-and-standards-sustainable-development




Date: 15 November 2023
Title: Mongolia must consolidate transformation toward independent justice system with Human Rights at its core
Content: 15 November 2023
ULAANBAATAR (15 November 2023) – A UN expert today welcomed steps Mongolia has taken to improve the independence of its judiciary since its transition to democracy in 1992, in particular the strides taken to implement human rights recommendations made by international bodies.
“Mongolia must seize the moment to complete the transformation it has begun,” said Margaret Satterthwaite, the UN Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers at the end of her official visit to the country.
“I welcome Mongolia’s evidence-based approach to reform and call for further action to solidify an independent justice system with human rights at its core.”
The Special Rapporteur visited courts and prosecutors’ offices in Ulaanbaatar, Selenge province, Mandal soum, and the city of Baganuur, where she met with committed professionals. She also witnessed the damaging impact of the lack of investment on the judiciary, including inadequate, inaccessible, and insecure facilities for judges, staff and court users. “Mongolian Judges are underpaid and often overworked,” the expert said. “Together with their assistants, they deserve to be recognised for their dedication in the face of these difficult conditions.”
Satterthwaite urged Mongolia to provide robust funding to secure the future of the justice system, including by dedicating a guaranteed percentage of the national budget to the judiciary.
Measures comparable to those taken to strengthen the judiciary should now be implemented in the prosecutorial service. “Appointments, transfers and promotions should have an objective and transparent basis,” she said. “In addition, an independent body should be established to oversee discipline and provide accountability.”
The Special Rapporteur commended civil society for their work to assess and monitor the independence of the judiciary. She was concerned that surveys highlighted a lack of trust in the judiciary and heard that social media is being used to disparage judges, including by holders of public office. “It is imperative that the government take measures to rebuild public trust,” Satterthwaite said. “This is an opportunity for the government to better explain the important role the judiciary plays in upholding a fair system where everyone can participate equally.”
Satterthwaite observed that the government is responsible for protecting the rights of all Mongolians and ensuring they have access to justice without discrimination. “I call on all actors to support and complement the essential work undertaken by civil society organisations to extend access to justice, including to rural herders, persons with disabilities, and the LGBTQ community.”
The expert will present a report containing her findings and recommendations on the visit to the Human Rights Council in June 2024.
ENDS
Ms. Margaret Satterthwaite is the Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers. She was appointed as United Nations Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers by the Human Rights Council in October 2022. Professor Satterthwaite is an international human rights scholar and practitioner with decades of experience in the field. She is a Professor of Clinical Law at New York University School of Law.
The Experts are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent of any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page - Mongolia
For further information and media requests, please write to:
hrc-sr-independencejl@un.org
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org).
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today. 
#Standup4humanrights 
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
Download the full statement of her preliminary observations below.
________________________________________________________
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/252740-mongolia-must-consolidate-transformation-toward-independent-justice-system-human-rights-its




Date: 03 November 2023
Title: UN expert to visit Mongolia to assess independence of justice system
Content: 03 November 2023
GENEVA / Ulaanbaatar (3 November 2023) – The UN Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers, Margaret Satterthwaite, will conduct an official visit to Mongolia from 6 to 15 November 2023.
During her visit, Satterthwaite will assess the measures taken by the Government to ensure the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and prosecutors, as well as the independent exercise of the legal profession.
The Special Rapporteur will address issues related to the structure, organisation and functioning of the judiciary; the administration of justice; the protection of the actors of the justice system; fair trial, including from a gender perspective. She will also examine equal access to justice and legal assistance, seeking to understand how ordinary people in Mongolia experience the judicial system.
The expert will meet Government officials and members of the Parliament, judges, prosecutors and lawyers. She will also meet representatives of civil society, academia, UN agencies, donors and the diplomatic community.
Satterthwaite will hold a press conference on Wednesday 15 November at 12:00 local time at the UN House. Access is strictly limited to journalists. Interested journalists and media must register via: soyolmaa.dolgor@un.org  or 94111220 in advance to gain a permit to the UN House.
The Special Rapporteur will present her report to the Human Rights Council in June 2024.
ENDS
*The expert: Ms. Margaret Satterthwaite, Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers. She was appointed as United Nations Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers by the Human Rights Council in October 2022. Professor Satterthwaite is an international human rights scholar and practitioner with decades of experience in the field. She is a Professor of Clinical Law at New York University School of Law.
The Experts are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent of any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page - Mongolia
For further information and media requests, please to hrc-sr-independencejl@un.org
For media enquiries regarding other UN independent experts, please contact Maya Derouaz (maya.derouaz@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org).
Follow news related to the UN's independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone's rights today.
#Standup4humanrights
and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/251565-un-expert-visit-mongolia-assess-independence-justice-system




Date: 24 October 2023
Title: President of Mongolia Celebrates the United Nations Day with UN family in Mongolia
Content: 24 October 2023
Ulaanbaatar, 24 October 2023 – As the world unites to commemorate United Nations Day, we kick off this day with an inspiring event – the visit of His Excellency Khurelsukh Ukhnaa, the President of Mongolia, to the UN House for the first time. This sets the tone for a day dedicated to celebrating the significance of the United Nations (UN) and its pivotal role in advancing global cooperation, peace, and sustainable development globally and in Mongolia.
During his visit, President Khurelsukh presented to the United Nations family in Mongolia, a sculpture entitled, “Consciousness”, by Mongolian artist Ochirbold Ayurzana, where its symbolic meaning highlights that humankind walks a path of goodness on earth and yet conflicts with greed and want in the world. The same sculpture also stands erect near the United Nations headquarters in New York presented to Secretary General Antonio Guterres by Mongolia’s former President.
United Nations Day, observed annually, marks the anniversary of the UN Charter's entry into force in 1945, establishing the first and only organization globally recognized for its legitimacy, convening power and normative impact. Since then, the UN has been at the forefront of addressing global challenges, including conflict resolution, peacebuilding, humanitarian aid, climate action, and the promotion of all human rights.
His Excellency Khurelsukh Ukhnaa, the President of Mongolia, stated in his address to the UN Mongolia team:
“We greatly value the United Nations as a crucial partner, offering comprehensive support for Mongolia's socio-economic development, environmental protection, and the promotion of democracy and good governance. Mongolia fully supports the UN Secretary-General's reform policy and is willing to expand our relations and cooperation with the United Nations.”
The United Nations' global impact extends to Mongolia, where it plays a vital role in advancing the nation's development priorities set in Vision 2050 and New Recovery Policy as well as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ever since its accession to United Nations in 1961.
The SDGs represent a universal call to action, aimed at ending poverty, protecting our planet, and ensuring prosperity for all. In Mongolia, the UN works alongside the government, civil society, and the private sector to accelerate progress towards these goals, recognizing the urgency of addressing challenges such as climate change, economic disparities, and recent global health crises.
Mr. Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia, stated “I am deeply humbled and honored, proud and privileged that President Khurelsukh joined our UN family on this special day. This is a strong indicator of the nation’s commitment towards achieving the SDGs and the importance it places on the mission and mandates of the UN. I would like to take this opportunity to salute the hardworking UN staff, both in Mongolia and globally, who dedicate their lives to making the world a better place. Your unwavering commitment to the UN's mission is  truly at the core of its success.”
As an organization born out of hope for a peaceful and prosperous world, the moment to come together with unwavering dedication is now, as we have multiple crises unfolding in the world.
On this day, let us recommit to building a brighter, more inclusive and sustainable future for Mongolia and the world, leaving no one behind. Together, we can achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and create a world where every individual can lead a life of dignity and opportunity.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/250356-president-mongolia-celebrates-united-nations-day-un-family-mongolia




Date: 11 October 2023
Title: UNCT Mongolia Statement on the International Day of the Girl Child 2023
Content: 11 October 2023
11 October 2023 is International Day of the Girl Child. This year’s theme is Invest in Girls' Rights: Our Leadership, Our Well-being.
On the International Day of the Girl Child, the United Nations Country Team (UNCT) in Mongolia reaffirms its commitment to promoting the full spectrum of girls’ rights. It is a day to recognize the rights of girls and mobilize our joint efforts to end discrimination, violence, and economic disparities and to change the negative social norms and gender stereotypes that disproportionately affect girls.
We are proud of Mongolian girls, who have demonstrated resilience, creativity, and leadership in the face of obstacles. We also recognize the efforts of the Mongolian government, civil society organizations, and other stakeholders to realize girls’ rights to education, health, safety, and empowerment.
Nevertheless, we are gravely concerned about the pervasive and persistent forms of violence against children, especially against girls in Mongolia, including neglect, sexual violence, exploitation, and abuse in their families, schools, communities, and online.
Our studies reveal that violence against children remains high, with 49 per cent of children aged 1-14 having experienced violent discipline at home. With increased access to the Internet, children face dangers online, such as exposure to inappropriate content, conduct, and contact, including emotional and sexual abuse, grooming, and exploitation. In a 2017 survey of gender-based violence prevalence, 10.7 per cent of women reported experiencing sexual abuse before turning 15, with family members often being the perpetrators.
Achieving gender equality and women and girls’ empowerment is integral to the Sustainable Development Goals. We believe investing in girls and young women is investing in our future.
Under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and other international human rights instruments, we urge the Government of Mongolia to take immediate and comprehensive action to prevent and tackle all forms of violence against girls and young women. The UN Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women recommended Mongolia accelerate the effective enforcement of laws and policies addressing violence against women and girls. We also appeal for providing adequate resources and support services for survivors of violence, including sexual violence, and for the prosecution and punishment of perpetrators.
UNCT Mongolia stands ready to support government and civil society organizations in their efforts to stop all forms of violence against girls and young women and to create a safe, inclusive, and enabling environment for them to realize their full potential.
On this International Day of the Girl Child, we invite all stakeholders to join us in unleashing the potential power—economic, political, ICTs, and social—of girls for a more peaceful, prosperous, just, and violence-free Mongolia.

URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/249070-unct-mongolia-statement-international-day-girl-child-2023




Date: 27 September 2023
Title: New Recovery – New Partnership: Government of Mongolia’s consultation with the Development Partner community
Content: 27 September 2023
The Prime Minister of Mongolia, L. Oyun-Erdene along with members of his Cabinet received the Diplomats and Development Partner community in Mongolia on 16 September at the Government House.
This meeting aimed to have an open discussion with the development partner community on the country’s economic outlook in the lead-up to the budget discussion at the Autumn Session of the Great Khural of Mongolia, to be convened on 2 October.
The Prime Minister highlighted that he sees this meeting is to serve as a regular mechanism to hear the international partners and discuss priorities in the development partnership.
The Government of Mongolia has gone through a challenging time during the last years of the COVID-19 pandemic, and its aftermath, followed by the geopolitical crisis due to the Russia-Ukraine war. However, the PM emphasized that the economy has some good recovery signs thanks to a series of measures within the New Recovery Policy – a key initiative by the Cabinet to tackle development challenges.
At the meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Economy and Development of Mongolia, Ch. Khurelbaatar presented the Economic Outlook of Mongolia, which projects positive economic growth in 2024 as most of the key sectors have returned to pre-pandemic levels.
The Minister for Finance, B. Javkhlan also emphasized that GPD per capita reached USD 5000 in 2023, and predicts it to grow up to USD 6000 in 2024.
Following the presentations of the Ministers, the open discussion session was facilitated by the UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra.
The international dignitaries raised many critical issues related to the sustainable development of Mongolia, including the need to accelerate the country’s efforts to achieve SDGs, the importance of addressing food and nutrition for the population and transforming education through digitalization.
One of the key topics raised by a number of participants was the transition to renewable energy and exploring ways to fully utilize renewable energy potentials.
Mr Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator expressed the collective appreciation of the development partners to the Government for their open and transparent discussion to explain its development policies and programs, and seeking mutual cooperation with its international partners.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/247512-new-recovery-%E2%80%93-new-partnership-government-mongolia%E2%80%99s-consultation-development-partner




Date: 07 September 2023
Title: National Forum for Sustainable Development
Content: 07 September 2023
Ulaanbaatar -- Mongolia will be presenting its renewed National Commitment to accelerate its efforts to achieve SDGs by 2030 at the SDG Summit to be held on 18-19 September in the United Nations, New York.
The Government of Mongolia, under the leadership of the Ministry of Economy and Development (MoED), developed the national accelerators for SDGs that will serve as an impetus to sustainable and inclusive development based on extensive consultations with the various stakeholders including the public and private sector, civil society, academic institutions, local citizens and youth.
Mongolia is currently preparing its National renewed commitment to achieving SDGs by 2030 based on identified SDGs accelerators, drawn from the national medium-term development policies, as well as extensive analytical findings such as the Second National Voluntary Review of SDGs implementation in Mongolia, presented at the UN’s High-level Political Forum in July 2023. The proposed accelerators are identified as follows:
These recommended accelerators are the results of extensive consultations with all stakeholders who represent development policymakers, decision-makers, and other development stakeholders.
At the National Forum for Sustainable Development, held on 7 September 2023, all parties will come together to finally endorse them to be adopted.
A number of national companies who are contributing to Mongolia’s efforts for sustainable development are supporting the forum event and showcasing their excellent initiatives for sustainable development during the event.
In tandem with the National Forum, the UN in Mongolia is spearheading an SDG Action Campaign to mobilize collective actions to accelerate achieving SDGs.
Contacts:
Ministry of Economy and Development
			B. Bayanzul, Press Officer
			Tel: 88011161
UN Resident Coordinator Office
			D. Soyolmaa, Communications and Advocacy Officer 
			Email: soyolmaa.dolgor@un.org
			Tel: 94111220

URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/244828-national-forum-sustainable-development




Date: 08 June 2023
Title: Mountainous Mongolia eyes e-commerce to diversify its economy
Content: 08 June 2023
An UNCTAD assessment shows the country has made progress in laying the foundations of a solid digital ecosystem and charts a path to overcome the challenges ahead.
Mongolia is looking to e-commerce to help overcome geographical challenges and diversify its economy, which relies heavily on mining – mainly of copper, coal, iron ores and gold.
The mountainous, landlocked nation is one of the world’s most sparsely populated. Mongolia’s remoteness, combined with its rugged terrain can make traditional trade and economic activities challenging.
“The digital way opens up a whole new facet for all aspects of economic diversification and especially trade,” said Tapan Mishra, the UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia.
“It is extremely important for Mongolia to leverage its trade potential by being eTrade ready,” Mr. Tapan said.
UNCTAD has worked closely with the government on an eTrade Readiness Assessment of the country.
Published on 8 June, it provides insight on the progress that the Eastern Asian nation has made in laying the groundwork for a strong e-commerce ecosystem and offers a road map of action to overcome remaining challenges.
“The assessment makes a series of policy recommendations, which, if effectively implemented, will help Mongolia move away from its commodity-based economy and accelerate its digital transformation,” Shamika N. Sirimanne, director of UNCTAD’s technology and logistics division, said at the assessment’s launch in Ulaanbaatar.
More connected and tech-savvy
Mongolia has made progress in areas that bode well for its e-commerce ambitions. The country has strengthened its ICT infrastructure, especially in urban areas, and increased internet connectivity.
According to data from the International Telecommunication Union, mobile broadband subscriptions in the country rose from 80 to 116 per 100 people between 2017 and 2021. And over 70% of subscribers have access to 4G/LTE networks.
During the same period, the share of Mongolians aged 15 years or older shopping online grew from 7% to 42% – the highest growth among landlocked developing countries and one of the highest in the world, according to World Bank data.

The country has also seen digital literacy increase among its youth. Half of its young men and women now possess general ICT skills, according to the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF).
The assessment also highlights that domestic digital payments, such as e-banking, mobile banking, electronic wallets and QR code payments, are now widely used for domestic purchases.
Urban-rural divides and logistics challenges
Although Mongolia has made progress in many key areas, challenges remain, especially the urban-rural divides – both physical and digital.
People in rural regions in the country still have limited access to reliable ICT infrastructure and to an internet connection. And access to affordable financial services remains limited for some segments of the population.
Mongolia's vast and sparsely populated landscape also presents logistical challenges for e-commerce.
Many of the country’s roads are unpaved and there is no unified system for addresses. These factors, combined with limited transportation networks and harsh weather conditions, make deliveries difficult and costly.
Limited finance and cross-border payments
While the COVID-19 pandemic accelerated the use of electronic payments for domestic purchases in Mongolia, cross-border digital payment options are few and fees remain high.
Another challenge is limited access to financing for digital and technological startups. They rely mainly on self-funding, personal loans and government support in the form of grants and tax relief.
Other financing options, such as crowdfunding and venture capital, are sparse and not yet regulated.
Although Mongolia has various laws related to e-commerce, the assessment highlights the need to strengthen its legal framework to protect consumers online and address concerns related to online fraud and data privacy.
A key milestone
UNCTAD’s eTrade Readiness Assessment marks a key milestone in Mongolia´s digital journey and lays the foundation for a national e-commerce strategy.
“By offering an analysis of Mongolia’s e-commerce ecosystem and charting a roadmap for its further growth, the eTrade Readiness Assessment is one of the catalytic forces for Mongolia to rapidly develop e-commerce,” the country’s foreign affairs minister, Battsetseg Batmunkh, said at the report’s launch.
Also speaking at the event, Mendbayar Tseveen, the co-founder of Shoppy.mn, one of Mongolia’s biggest online marketplaces, highlighted the power of e-commerce to open new doors for Mongolian businesses.
“E-commerce connects Mongolian and international businesses and empowers domestic retail businesses to harness their full potential,” Mr. Tseveen said.
The assessment calls on government ministries and agencies, e-commerce companies, academia and development partners to join forces in implementing the recommendations. They cut across sectors and require concerted efforts from the public and private sectors.
UNCTAD will support the country in implementing the recommendations.
The organization is committed to mobilizing further support from eTrade for all and development partners to leverage the power of the country’s growing digital economy and build a bright digital future for all Mongolians.
The eTrade Readiness Assessment of Mongolia was developed with the support of the Republic of Korea, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Switzerland.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/235455-mountainous-mongolia-eyes-e-commerce-diversify-its-economy




Date: 06 June 2023
Title: Finalists revealed for global young entrepreneur’s pitch contest
Content: 06 June 2023
(Geneva/Ulaanbaatar) – Three African and four Asian youth start-ups will take centre stage at this year’s World Export Development Forum (WEDF), taking place from 26-29 June in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. WEDF is the annual flagship event of the lead UN agency supporting small businesses, the International Trade Centre.
The selected companies will pitch their businesses to a panel of judges at the Youth Ecopreneur Awards 2023. The contest includes two award categories: Green Business Solutions and Land Restoration.
The awards come with seed funding and capacity building. The prize packages for the finalists are provided by ITC, the G20 Global Land Initiative of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Google's Startups for Sustainable Development programme and the multinational law firm Sidley Austin.
The finalists – from Bangladesh, Egypt, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Madagascar and Mongolia - were selected through a rigorous process by ITC in collaboration with partners, including the G20 Global Land Initiative and advisers from the ITC global network of young entrepreneurs, Ye! Community. Finalists were chosen based on their work promoting sustainability, circularity and the green economy, including land restoration. The finalists went through a two-step process, first a written application followed by a pitch showcasing their efforts to drive change and sustainable practices.
The seven finalists are iPAGE, Bangladesh; Cupmena, Egypt; Sommalife, Ghana; Brown Reed Agri Waste Innovations, India; Liberty Society, Indonesia; Bôndy, Madagascar; and Airee, Mongolia.
In Ulaanbaatar, the pitch contestants will be assessed by a panel of judges comprising the winner of the 2021 Youth Ecopreneur Awards, Vedant Ghandi; Paula Padrino Vilela, G20 Global Land Initiative; Diana Carballo Chanfon, Sidley Austin; Allan Majuru, ZimTrade; and Andrew Ong, WIPO.
The judges will choose the winners based on the value proposition of the businesses, their environmental impact, market potential, team strength, sustainability and scalability of the business model.
The ITC Youth Ecopreneur Awards aims to connect young entrepreneurs to markets and support entrepreneurship, contributing to achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Spotlighting the finalists
Finalists for the Green Business Solutions category:
Chirag M G of Brown Reed Agri Waste Innovations, an Indian waste management company, converts agri-waste into sustainable and scalable innovations while creating jobs for rural women.
Abdulrhman Elhalafawy of Cupmena, an Egyptian company, reduces waste in the coffee industry and develops innovative agri-solutions to help combat climate change.
Tamara Dewi Gondo Soerijo of the Indonesian manufacturing social enterprise, Liberty Society, works with women to produce upcycled goods, gifts and green campaigns for socially conscious corporations and brands.
Oyungerel Munkhbat of the Mongolian air filter manufacturer Airee  reduces microplastics pollution through 100% biodegradable wool filters.
Finalists for the Land Restoration category:
Max Fontaine of the Malagasy reforestation company Bôndy develops rural communities through agroforestry and mangrove planting to generate socioeconomic and ecological impact.
Mashrur Hossain of Bangladeshi agri-tech company iPAGE provides crop-specific digital advisory services to smallholder farmers to enhance their productivity.
Mawuse Christina Gyisun of the Ghanaian agri-tech company Sommalife conserves and restores shea trees and creates market access opportunities.
These finalists were selected from a shortlist of 419 companies from 63 countries.
The Green Business Solutions shortlisted companies include: Givo Limited - Nigeria, Brown Reed Agri Waste Innovation - India, Cupmena - Egypt, Qubix Robotics - Malawi, ReciclApp - Mexico, Green Composting - Tanzania, Saathi - India, Liberty Society - Indonesia, Angirus - India and Diapo Inc - Zimbabwe, and from Mongolia, Nomadic PowerBox LLC and Airee Felt.
For the Land Restoration category, the shortlist includes 10 companies from seven countries: Bôndy International - Madagascar, Sommalife - Ghana, Clauseph Enterprises - Botswana, iPAGE Bangladesh - Bangladesh, Orda Wealth - Mongolia, Neoperk Technologies - India, Kimalaya Naturals - India, Viva Organica - Botswana, Ecowillow Ghana - Ghana and Climtech Intelligence - Nigeria.
This is the fourth young entrepreneurs pitch competition at the World Export Development Forum. At each of the previous conferences, the national host was offered the opportunity to field independent candidates in the competitive process.
Diversifying through green, digital trade
The 2023 edition of the World Export Development Forum will take the theme of ‘Diversify with Green Trade’, exploring organic, digital and sustainable solutions to multiple crises. While the conference theme is global, there is a focus on trade opportunities for landlocked developing countries. Mongolia is the world's second largest landlocked country.
The conference will be hosted by the Government of Mongolia, led by the Office of the President, in close partnership with the United Nations Country Team for Mongolia.
About the International Trade Centre - The International Trade Centre is the joint agency of the World Trade Organization and the United Nations. ITC assists small and medium-sized enterprises in developing and transition economies to become more competitive in global markets, thereby contributing to sustainable economic development within the frameworks of the Aid-for-Trade agenda and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
For more information, visit www.intracen.org.
Follow ITC on Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Instagram | Flickr
Media contact
Susanna Pak
Senior Strategic Communications Officer
International Trade Centre
E: pak@intracen.org
T: +41 22 730 0651
M: +41 79 667 4660


URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/234961-finalists-revealed-global-young-entrepreneur%E2%80%99s-pitch-contest




Date: 26 April 2023
Title: Дэлхийн шилдэг “Залуу энтрепренер” шагнал энэ жил экологид ээлтэй, ногоон бизнесийг шалгаруулна
Content: 26 April 2023
(Женева/Улаанбаатар) – НҮБ, Монгол Улсын Засгийн газраас хамтран зохион байгуулах олон улсын бага хурал хөгжиж буй орнуудын ногоон, тогтвортой шийдэл бүхий залуу энтрепренерүүдэд өөрсдийн бизнесийн санаагаа танилцуулж, санхүүжилт авах боломжийг олгож байна.
Залуу энтрепренерүүдийн бизнесийн санаа шалгаруулах уралдаан Женев дэх Олон улсын худалдааны төв (ОУХТ)-өөс зохион байгуулдаг Олон улсын экспортыг дэмжих форум (World Export Development Forum)-ын хүрээнд болдог. ОУХТ нь НҮБ болон Дэлхийн худалдааны байгууллагын хамтарсан байгууллага бөгөөд жижиг бизнесийг дэлхийн зах зээлтэй холбож өгөхөд гол чиглэдэг.
Энэхүү уралдаанд 35 хүртэл насны залуу бизнес эрхлэгчид өөрсдийн тогтвортой, шинэлэг, тойрог эдийн засаг ба/эсвэл ногоон эдийн засгийг дэмжсэн төслөөрөө өрсөлдөх боломжтой.  Уралдаанд оролцогч компани, аж ахуй нэгж нь аль нэг хөгжиж буй оронд албан ёсны бүртгэлтэй байхаас гадна залуучуудын санаачилж, удирдсан бизнес байх ёстой. (Оролцох боломжтой орнуудын жагсаалтыг eligible countries -аас харна уу).
Залуу энтрепренерүүдийн уралдаанд бүртгүүлэх линк.  Сүүлийн хугацаа 2023 оны 5 дүгээр сарын 10.
Шалгарсан 4 оролцогч (тэдний нэгийг Монгол Улсаас тодруулна) нь Бичил, жижиг, дунд бизнесийн олон улсын өдөр буюу 6 дугаар сарын 27-ны өдөр Улаанбаатарт ирж Экпортыг дэмжих олон улсын форумын хүрээнд зохион байгуулах арга хэмжээнд бизнесийн санаагаа танилцуулна.  Шалгарсан оролцогч нь 5000 ам. долларын гарааны санхүүжилт авахаас гадна бизнес хөгжлийг дэмжих зорилго бүхий Google Старт хөтөлбөрт хамрагдах, ОУХТ-өөс зохион байгуулах бизнесийн санаа танилцуулах сургалт, нэмэлт санхүүжилт авах боломж олгож хөрөнгө оруулагчидтай холбож өгөх, ОУХТ-ийн мэдээлэл харилцааны арга хэмжээгээр дамжуулан олон улсад таниулах, Монголд бага хуралд оролцох зардлыг нь олгох зэрэг олон таатай боломжийн эзэн болох юм.
Энэ удаагийн арга хэмжээнд оролцогчдод Дэлхийн экспортын хөгжлийн форумын “Залуу энтрепренер”-ийн өмнөх 3 сонгон шалгаруулалтын ялагч буюу ОУХТ-ийн шилдэг оролцогчдын бизнесийг давхар танилцуулна. Байгальд ээлтэй ногоон худалдаа нь бага хурлын сэдэвтэй нийцэж, бодлого боловсруулагчдыг залуу энтрепренерүүдэд үзүүлэх дэмжлэгээ улам өргөжүүлж, улмаар тэдэнд байгальд ээлтэй илүү ногоон худалдааг хөхиүлэн дэмжих эдийн засгийн хөгжлийг чиглүүлэх зорилготой юм.
Дэлхийн экспортын хөгжлийн форумын “Залуу энтрепренер”-ийн өмнөх ялагчид 2017 онд Унгар Улсын Будапешт хотод болсон тэмцээнд түрүүлсэн Гана улсын агротех старт-ап АгроСента захирал Майкл Окансэй (Michael Ocansey); 2018 оны Замбиа Улсын Лусака хотод түрүүлсэн  Гана улсын сошиал энтерпрайз Dext технологийг санаачлагч Чарлес Офори Антипем (Charles Ofori Antipem), 2019 онд Этопийн Аддис Абаба хотод зохиогдсон тэмцээнд түрүүлсэн Өмнөд Африкийн дахин боловсруулах, хог хаягдлын менежмент Сиябонга (Siyabonga Tshabalala) нар юм.
ОУХТ-ийн “Дэлхийн онлайн залуу энтрепренер” (ITC Ye! Community)-ээс зохион байгуулсан “Залуу эко-пренер” (Youth Ecopreneur Awards)-ийн өмнөх ялагчид Уганда улсын “Innovex” нарны эрчим хүчний бизнесийн санааг дэвшүүлсэн Дуглас Багума, Энэтхэг улсын “recycleХ” хог хаягдал дахин боловсруулах компаний бизнесийн санаа дэвшүүлсэн Ведант Ганди, Доминиканы Бүгд Найрамдах Улсын хүнс үйлдвэрлэлийн санаа дэвшүүлсэн Лидиа Диаз нар юм.
Ногоон, дижитал (цахим) худалдаагаар дамжуулан бизнесийг төрөлжүүлэх
Дэлхийн экспортын хөгжлийн форумын 2023 оны арга хэмжээ 6 дугаар сарын 26-29-ны өдрүүдэд “Ногоон худалдаагаар экспортыг төрөлжүүлье” сэдвийн дор өнөөгийн олон асуудал, хямралын нөхцөлд үр дүнтэй байх органик, дижитал (цахим), тогтвортой шийдлүүдийг хайхад чиглэнэ.  Бага хурлын сэдэв дэлхий нийтийн төдийгүй Ази-Номхон далайн бүс нутаг, далайд гарцгүй хөгжиж буй орнуудад тустай худалдааны боломжуудад чиглэнэ. Монгол улс далайд гарцгүй хоёр дахь хамгийн том орон юм.
Монгол газарзүйн байршлын хувьд Европ, Азийн дунд байрладаг стратегийн чухал ач холбогдолтой орон тул дижитал (цахим) үйлчилгээг оруулан нэмүү өртөг шингэсэн хөдөө аж ахуйн бизнес, үйлчилгээгээ өргөжүүлэх сайн боломж түүнд байгаа юм. Тус оронд жижиг бизнесийн салбар амжилттай хөгжиж байгаагийн дээр сургаж бэлтгэгдсэн мэргэжлийн хүмүүст эмэгтэйчүүд, залуучуудын оролцоо их голлох байр суурьтай байдаг.
Бага хурлыг Монгол Улсын Ерөнхийлөгчийн тамгын газраар ахлуулан Монгол Улсын Засгийн газар, Монгол дахь НҮБ-ын баг хамтран зохион байгуулна.

Нэмэлт мэдээллийн эх сурвалж:
“Дэлхийн экспортын хөгжлийн форум-2023”-ын талаар нэмэлт мэдээлэл: World Export Development Forum (WEDF) | ITC (intracen.org) -ээс авна уу.
“Дэлхийн экспортын хөгжлийн форум-2023”-д бүртгүүлэх бол: World Export Development Forum 2023: Mongolia (26-29 June 2023): Overview · Indico
Нэмэлт мэдээлэл www.intracen.org-ээс авна уу.  Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Instagram дагах. Олон улсын худалдааны төвийн талаарх мэдээлэл –Дэлхийн худалдааны байгууллага (World Trade Organization) болон НҮБ (United Nations)-ын хамтарсан байгууллага.  ОУХТ нь хөгжиж буй болон шилжилтийн эдийн засаг бүхий орнуудад жижиг, дунд бизнесийг дэмжиж, тэдний дэлхийн зах зээлд өрсөлдөх чадварыг нэмэгдүүлэхийг зорьж ингэснээр Худалдааг дэмжих тусламж хөтөлбөр болон НҮБ-ын ТХЗ-уудын хүрээнд эдийн засгийн тогтвортой хөгжилд хувь нэмэр оруулдаг.
Нэмэлт мэдээллийг www.intracen.org-ээс  авна уу.
Биднийг дагах:  Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Instagram | Flickr
ОУХТ-ийн Ye! Community ын талаар товч мэдээлэл: залуу энтрепренерүүдэд тогтвортой амжилттай бизнес эрхлэн, өргөжүүлэхэд нь туслах зорилготой бөгөөд залуучууд, менторууд, байгаль хамгааллын зүтгэлтэн хүмүүсийг дэлхийн хэмжээний сүлжээнд нэгдэх, старт-ап арга хэрэгсэл, улс орны нөхцөл байдалд тохирсон заавар чиглэл, нөөц, арга хэмжээ, бизнесийн боломжуудтай болоход нь тусладаг.
Хэвлэл мэдээллийн багтай холбогдох:
Олон улсын худалдааны төв
Стратегийн мэдээлэл харилцааны ахлах ажилтан
Сузанна Пак
Цахим хаяг: pak@intracen.org
Утас: +41 22 730 0651
Гар утас: +41 79 667 4660
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/228977-%D0%B4%D1%8D%D0%BB%D1%85%D0%B8%D0%B9%D0%BD-%D1%88%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B4%D1%8D%D0%B3-%E2%80%9C%D0%B7%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%83%D1%83-%D1%8D%D0%BD%D1%82%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%B5%D1%80%E2%80%9D-%D1%88%D0%B0%D0%B3%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%BB-%D1%8D%D0%BD%D1%8D-%D0%B6%D0%B8%D0%BB-%D1%8D%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%B3%D0%B8%D0%B4-%D1%8D%D1%8D%D0%BB%D1%82%D1%8D%D0%B9-%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%BE%D0%BD-%D0%B1%D0%B8%D0%B7%D0%BD%D0%B5%D1%81%D0%B8%D0%B9%D0%B3




Date: 25 April 2023
Title: Mongolia will present the second Voluntary National Review on SDGs implementation in the UN
Content: 25 April 2023
The VNR is a process through which countries assess and present national progress made in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
18 April 2023 -- Today, the Ministry of Economy and Development and UN Mongolia jointly organized a national consultation with diverse stakeholders on the draft Second Voluntary National Review (VNR) on the implementation of the SDGs in Mongolia.
The MED, with its mandate and function, led the working groups involving different stakeholders including the private sector, CSOs, and academia to prepare the second VNR of Mongolia to be presented at the UN’s High-level Political Forum in July 2023 among other 47 countries.
The VNR is a process through which countries assess and present national progress made in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
The VNR aims to facilitate the sharing of experiences, including successes, challenges, and lessons learned, with a view to accelerating the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, which also seeks to strengthen policies and institutions of governments and to mobilize multi-stakeholder support and partnerships for the implementation of SDGs.
The Second VNR analysed the SDGs progress in Mongolia using the SDGS tracker developed by UNESCAP based on the nationalized SDGs indicators and targets of Mongolia.
The second VNR has made a focused analysis of the country’s regional and rural development. Forty-seven per cent of the country’s population settled in Ulaanbaatar, the capital city of Mongolia. Ulaanbaatar is the main attraction for the population from rural areas as it houses 90 per cent of universities, 86 per cent of trade and services, 81 per cent of total savings 76 per cent of total businesses and 54 per cent of vehicles. More than 65 per cent of Mongolia’s GDP is produced in Ulaanbaatar.
“The importance of this topic is enormous nowadays and I believe in addressing the issues related to regional development will have multiplier and positive impacts in creating opportunities in provinces/rural areas through economic diversification, targeted social infrastructure, addressing development (geographical) disparities, reducing poverty and inequalities, reversing migration to rural areas, resolving over concentrated challenges and burden in Ulaanbaatar city,” said Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator in his opening remarks.
The VNR analysis identified a number of bottlenecks to the sub-regional and rural development, including a lack of systemic policy and planning for rural development and a lack of mechanisms and means to attract investment and migration to rural areas.
The second VNR also addressed the furthest left behind groups, identifying the low-educated, male, and middle-aged population in addition to the groups that were identified as at risk to be left behind including children and youth with disabilities, the elderly, herders and internal migrants.
The VNR offers insightful recommendations for the country to act upon, reflecting into relevant policies and programs in order to fulfil its obligations toward achieving Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/228894-mongolia-will-present-second-voluntary-national-review-sdgs-implementation-un




Date: 17 March 2023
Title: The joint cooperation framework for Mongolia and the UN in Mongolia for 2023-2027 enters into full swing
Content: 17 March 2023
The JSC monitors progress, challenges, risks, and opportunities, and steers the direction of implementation of the UNSDCF in the next five years.
The JSC meeting also reviewed the results of the previous the Cooperation Framework, known as UN Development Assistance Framework, implemented from 2017 to 2022.
The JSC members concluded that the UN development assistance carried out in the last six years was instrumental to support Mongolia’s development, supporting the Government’s Action Plan, Vision 2050 – Mongolia’s long-term development policies, increasing Mongolia’s contributions to the achievement of the SDGs, and strengthening Mongolia’s roles and commitment to the international communities.
The JSC members also discussed and endorsed the Joint workplan to be carried out within the UNSDCF, paving the wave for the full implementation of the new cooperation framework in the next five years.
At the JSC meeting, UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra reminded the members that 2023 is the mid-point year for Sustainable Development Agenda – 2030, and the UN will take stock of the progress towards SDGs at the SDGs Summit to be held in Sep 2022 in New York. Heading up to the Summit, Mongolia will also present its second Voluntary National Report on the implementation of the SDGs at the High-level Political Forum in July.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/223581-joint-cooperation-framework-mongolia-and-un-mongolia-2023-2027-enters-full-swing




Date: 07 March 2023
Title: Joint Statement of the UN in Mongolia on the occasion of International Women’s Day
Content: 07 March 2023
Ulaanbaatar -- Harnessing the power of technology and innovation for the voice and the political, social, and economic empowerment of women and girls in Mongolia is essential to deliver transformative impact and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals in Mongolia.
However, the inclusion of women and girls and their safety in the digital space must be prioritized to ensure that the benefits of digital transformation are enjoyed by all equally.
This year’s International Women’s Day sheds a spotlight on the potential of innovation and technology in reducing inequalities and closing gender gaps.
While advancements in digitalization are transforming economies, industries, and societies, women and girls are often being left behind, or worse, harmed by them.
Though Mongolia is making steady progress toward advancing gender equality, the road ahead to full realization of gender equality remains long and arduous. Current global and local crises, including health emergencies, climate change, food insecurity, and cost-of-living crises, are exacerbating the existing inequalities and deeply impacting Mongolia’s most vulnerable, including female-headed households and rural women. Information and communication technologies (ICT) are essential and can play an instrumental role in strengthening their resilience.
Women and girls in Mongolia continue to face widespread discrimination and violence offline and online, unequal access to technology, finance, healthcare, employment, salary and compensation, and decision-making. Cultural and social norms that reinforce gender stereotypes, significantly threaten women’s participation in digital and public spaces and leave tremendous, often irreversible harm on the mental health, well-being, and safety of women and girls.
There is a substantial divide when it comes to education and employment in the ICT sector in Mongolia. For instance, male students comprise 73 percent of graduates in information technology of total university graduates as of 2022.
We must address these issues with a multi-faceted and concerted approach by challenging harmful gender norms and developing an enabling environment that ensures women and girls have equal access to technology, skills, employment, and opportunities to fully participate in the digital economy.
We call on all Mongolian men and women, boys and girls to join the UN in Mongolia in realizing our common vision for an inclusive, sustainable, and prosperous Mongolia where:
We call on the Government of Mongolia and all of our partners to work together to ensure women and girls are not left behind or their safety or well-being is compromised when utilizing technology and innovation to accelerate Mongolia’s sustainable development.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/222003-joint-statement-un-mongolia-occasion-international-women%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 14 February 2023
Title: World Export Development Forum 2023 to spotlight green, digital trade
Content: 14 February 2023
The flagship event of the International Trade Centre (ITC), to be hosted this year by the Government of Mongolia, takes place on 26-29 June 2023 in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
(Geneva/Ulaanbaatar) – Invest in diversifying sectors and markets through green and digital trade - that is the focus of the 2023 edition of the World Export Development Forum (WEDF), the flagship event of the Geneva-based International Trade Centre (ITC).
ITC is the joint agency of the United Nations and the World Trade Organization and focuses on connecting small businesses to global markets. In Mongolia, the Ministry of Economy and Development, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the President are leading the Mongolian Task Force for this event. The United Nations Country Team of Mongolia is also a partner on this event.
This year’s conference, under the theme ‘Diversify with Green Trade’, explores organic, digital and sustainable solutions to multiple crises. It focuses especially on the Asia-Pacific region, as well as landlocked developing countries (LLDCs).
Mongolia, strategically located between Europe and Asia, has potential to expand its value-added agribusiness and services, including digital services. It hosts a vibrant small business sector, including an educated workforce of women and youth-led firms.
Launching WEDF 2023
This year marks the 20th WEDF, which talks trade, does business and drives development. It is unique for bringing together the voice of small business, women, young entrepreneurs, policymakers and international organizations.
ITC Executive Director Pamela Coke-Hamilton and H.E. Davaasuren Gerelmaa, Ambassador of Mongolia in Geneva, will announce the conference at a hybrid launch event on 15 February at ITC headquarters.
Ms. Coke-Hamilton said: ‘Small businesses play a key role in shifting away from commodity-driven economies. Young entrepreneurs and women-led businesses are part of a more sustainable way forward. With Mongolia as our host, we look forward to convening leaders across the world to explore how to diversify with green trade and build more resilient societies.’
Ambassador Gerelmaa said: ‘As the WEDF host, we look forward to engaging with global leaders to find common solutions to the challenges we’re facing, to create a greener, more connected and inclusive future of trade.’
Join for the hybrid launch event on 15 February 2023 at 10:00-11:00 CET / 17:00-18:00 UTC+8.
Highlighting the business voice: LLDCs, women and youth
WEDF will host an LLDC Private Sector Preparatory Meeting for the 2024 Landlocked Developing Countries Ministerial Conference. This WEDF side event takes place on 26 June, so that LLDC businesses include their aspirations formally in UN channels. The conclusions then will be brought to a WEDF plenary and submitted formally as part of the UN Ministerial process.
Also on 26 June, a SheTrades Mongolia Hub will be launched. This hub joins 11 other national hubs around the world, which provide training and policy advice to women in business, especially those led by women.
A young entrepreneurs pitch competition on 27 June will include finalists from several countries, including Mongolia.
Focusing on small business
The World Export Development Forum’s official opening takes place on 27 June, which is also World Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Day.
Small businesses are key to trade-led growth, job creation and smooth global value chains. In Mongolia, as in most other economies, small firms form the backbone of the economy, representing about three-quarters of the total workforce, with women making up a large share of entrepreneurs. Enabling more small businesses to connect to international markets ensures that the gains from trade are more broadly distributed.
WEDF 2023 plenaries take place on 27 and 28 June, focusing on current issues shaping global trade and business, from paths to diversify trade to scaling up youth entrepreneurship in new sectors, trade megatrends for landlocked developing countries, green trade, digital services and access to finance.
Capacity building training on organic and digital trade, specifically targeted to Mongolian small firms, rounds out the programme on 29 June.
Previous editions of WEDF have been held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (2019), Lusaka, Zambia (2018), Budapest, Hungary (2017), Colombo, Sri Lanka (2016), Doha, Qatar (2015), Kigali, Rwanda (2014), Jakarta, Indonesia (2012), Istanbul, Turkey (2011) and Chongqing, China (2010).
Register for WEDF and stay up to date as the programme evolves at: http://www.intracen.org/wedf
About the International Trade Centre - The International Trade Centre is the joint agency of the World Trade Organization and the United Nations. ITC assists small and medium-sized enterprises in developing and transition economies to become more competitive in global markets, thereby contributing to sustainable economic development within the frameworks of the Aid-for-Trade agenda and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
For more information, visit www.intracen.org.
Follow ITC on Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Instagram | Flickr
Media contacts
Susanna Pak
Senior Strategic Communications Officer
International Trade Centre
E: pak@intracen.org
T: +41 22 730 0651
M: +41 79 667 4660

URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/219118-world-export-development-forum-2023-spotlight-green-digital-trade




Date: 23 January 2023
Title: Dzud in Mongolia: Critical to act early and protect herders’ livelihoods
Content: 23 January 2023


The Government of Mongolia reported that more than 60 percent of Mongolia’s territory is at high risk of dzud – a natural phenomenon that is unique to Mongolia.
Heavy snowfalls in winter following a severe drought in summer cause animals to perish due to a lack of grazing pastures. Herders also wouldn’t be able to prepare hay and fodder to survive through the harsh winter in dry summers. Therefore, the Government of Mongolia calls for early actions and response to protect the livelihoods of the herder households.
“It is vital to take early prevention measures to minimize the impacts of any anticipated hardships and disasters on vulnerable people,” Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia said at the meeting held by the Humanitarian Country Team (HCT) in Mongolia, consisting of international development and humanitarian organizations.
“Therefore, the HCT will effectively coordinate their collective efforts for dzud response and early preventive actions under the leadership of the Government.”
Responding to the appeal from the Government, the HCT has mobilized needed funds and resources to elevate the suffering of herders and the loss of more animals. Some of these responses would include animal fodder for the most vulnerable herder households while others would receive cash support and health packages.
Dzud, the severe winter situation coupled with economic challenges caused by the pandemic and international crises, and the accompanying increase in commodity and fuel prices, make it more difficult for many Mongolian herders to get through the winter and spring with low risk, according to the analysis by the Government.
The Humanitarian Country Team stands ready to provide needed support for the Government of Mongolia by pooling its funds and available resources. Moreover, the Country Team focuses on early preventive actions to build stronger resilience of herders in times of shocks caused by natural and humanitarian crises.
Mongolia snapshot: Severe Winter - Dzud (2022 - 2023), As of 18 January 2023 by OCHA
UNICEF Mongolia Representative Evariste Kouassi-Komlan, who is currently on a mission to the western region, reports that many herder families are severely affected by the dzud and experience hardships to access health and education services.


URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/216252-dzud-mongolia-critical-act-early-and-protect-herders%E2%80%99-livelihoods




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: Giving a voice to people with disabilities
Content: 02 December 2022
UN Country Team’s consultative meeting with persons with disabilities in Mongolia
Ulaanbaatar – Today, the United Nations in Mongolia held a consultative meeting with people with disabilities in Mongolia, marking the International Day of People with Disabilities on 3 December.
“This meeting is very timely for the UN system in Mongolia as we are entering into the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework for the next five years, starting from 2023”, said Mr. Tapan Mishra in his welcoming remarks.
“UN Country Team members discussed opportunities for further partnerships and engagement with disability-focused civil society organizations and other stakeholders in order to effectively engage and advocate for the rights of people with disabilities and learn their challenges and priorities.”
The UN in Mongolia also invited Mr. Ch. Undrakhbayar, Social Policy Advisor to Prime Minister, Ms. S. Tungalagtamir, Head of Population Development Department, and other government officials from relevant ministries and agencies to bring all key players on board for creating a more inclusive and equitable policy for people with special needs.
Mr. Ch. Undrakhbayar highlighted some of the key policies and measures by the Government within its New Revival Policy that aimed at the well-being of people with special needs. He emphasized the importance of public and private sector partnerships for a more inclusive development policy that leaves no one behind.
This year’s theme of the International Day of People with Disabilities highlights the transformative solutions for inclusive development: the role of innovation in fueling an accessible and equitable world. Along this line, Mr. Undrakhbyar also introduced some of the policies reforms, and measures that aimed to make ICT services accessible for people with disabilities.
This includes Government’s digital transformation initiatives such as the e-Mongolia platform that will make public services more and easily accessible for people with special needs.
Among the invitees were the broad representatives from the civil society organizations who are actively advocating for the rights of their constituencies.
Mr. Ya. Avirmed, head of the Tugeemel Khugjil NGO presented the preliminary findings of the monitoring of the housing rights of persons with disabilities in Mongolia, commissioned by the UN in Mongolia in 2022.
Limited access to decent and affordable housing has been identified as a pressing issue as many of them live in ger areas that are not connected to central heating, water supply, and sewage system.
Mr. N. Tamirkhuu, a member of the PwD community, stressed that the housing policies and mortgage procedures are not prioritizing the vulnerable strata of the population including people with disabilities.
Participants also raised other challenges that people with disabilities face including the lack of labour rights implementation and access to education and basic infrastructure.
Some of the notable solutions discussed include improving government policies through innovative financial mechanisms and enhancing employment opportunities to enable their economic status to qualify for mortgage loans.
It was a timely consultative meeting for the UN Country Team to listen to the voice of people with disabilities and understand their needs, challenges, and priorities.
The UN Country Team is committed to contributing to tackling some of the pressing issues within the new phase of our Cooperation Framework to promote a more inclusive and equitable development in Mongolia.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/209970-giving-voice-people-disabilities




Date: 25 November 2022
Title: ​Joint Statement of the United Nations in Mongolia on the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence
Content: 25 November 2022




Today marks the beginning of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence (GBV) campaign. In this global movement, people from around the world come together to stand against violence against women and girls in all settings. We must not tolerate any and all forms of violence against women and girls at home, at workplaces and in public.
It has been 25 years since Mongolia joined the global movement, which raises awareness about the reality of gender-based violence and actively engages the public toward ending the discriminatory gender norms and stereotypes that underlie the violence.
According to the National Gender-based Violence Survey, one in every two Mongolian women has experienced violence perpetrated by an intimate partner at least once in their lives. Regrettably, at least one in every three survivors of physical and sexual violence believes that a man is justified in hitting his partner under certain circumstances.
One in ten (10.7 per cent) of all women reported having experienced sexual abuse before they were 15 years old. The most common perpetrators of violence and abuse were other family members (29.5 per cent).
A 2021 study by the Communications Regulatory Commission and Mongolian Marketing Consulting Group reveals that 33% of children come across child sexual abuse materials online.
Furthermore, according to the recent violence and harassment at work study (2021) conducted by the National Human Rights Commission of Mongolia and the International Labour Organization, 10 per cent of women said they had experienced sexual harassment of some form at their workplace.
We deplore these acts of violence, whether physical, sexual, psychological, or economic. We stand together to bring an end to violence against women and girls.
There is a critical need to bring awareness to gender-based violence, focus on prevention, and support services for violence survivors. This has become even more urgent as Mongolia grapples with the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic and economic downturn. The significant spikes in domestic violence cases recorded in Mongolia at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic have not subsided and remain a growing concern.
In the first seven months of 2022, 6,263 domestic violence cases were reported to the police, a 19 per cent increase from the previous year. Reports show that over 95 per cent of perpetrators of domestic violence were men, which underscores the need for advocacy for positive transformative masculinity for men, and support for both men and women to stand against gender-based violence.
The eradication of violence against women and girls is a collective responsibility. In addition to our continued efforts to support and protect the victims as well as ensure appropriate action against perpetrators, we need to focus due attention on prevention by facilitating access to survivor-centred and multi-sectoral services, and addressing root causes of gender-based violence by working closely with communities to progressively transform the conditions that perpetuate violence against women and girls.
We will continue to provide capacity development support to state and non-state actors through training on a comprehensive approach to gender-based violence prevention, risk mitigation, and response to disclosures and safe referrals.
We call on everyone to stand with women and girls to take firm action to end the violence. The UN calls upon everyone in Mongolia – men and women alike – to recognize their role in ending gender-based violence by PROTECTING ALL THAT IS PRECIOUS TO YOU, the call to action for this year’s 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence campaign in Mongolia.
We reaffirm our commitment to helping create a violence-free society where the rights of every woman and girl are respected and protected by all, today and every day and everywhere – in public, at home and in workplaces.

URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/208276-%E2%80%8Bjoint-statement-united-nations-mongolia-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence




Date: 22 November 2022
Title: Mongolia’s Second National Voluntary Review on the SDGs Implementation kicks off
Content: 22 November 2022
Today, the Government of Mongolia, represented by the Ministry of Economic Development (MED) and the United Nations in Mongolia launched the Second National Voluntary Review (VNR) on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in Mongolia.
Batjargal Khandav, the State Secretary of the MED, who is the chairperson of the multistakeholder working group for VNR preparation stressed that effective policies and decisions can be achieved for effective implementation of SDGs in Mongolia only with a broad representation and involvement of all relevant stakeholders.
Ensuring to bring the voices of all key players, including the Government, civil society, academia, and the private sector, this initiation workshop laid the groundwork for the rigorous process of the elaboration of the VNR, as elaborated in the roadmap below:
This review aims to assess and present national progress made in implementing the 2030 Agenda at the UN’s High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development in July 2023.
In his opening remarks, Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia emphasized that the analysis in the Second VNR should demonstrate progress from the previous VNR and the impact of the measures Mongolia presented in 2019.
He also expressed that this analysis should reveal the impacts of the many external shocks that occurred soon after the first VNR on the SDGs achievement in Mongolia.
Mongolia was hard hit by the impacts of COVID-19, which left a considerable mark on the socio-economic spheres, especially affecting those at risk of being left behind.
The recent global crisis has also left a remarkable impact on the economy and the livelihoods of people in Mongolia, as evidenced by the recent joint study by the UN in Mongolia.
Therefore, Mongolia needs to take more concerted and coordinated interventions to ensure better socio-economic recovery from the shocks and crises.
In this regard, this Second VNR will present an overall picture of Mongolia’s progress as well as challenges as highlighted in the Government’s New Recovery Policy in order to lead its way to inclusive and sustainable development for all Mongolians.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/208270-mongolia%E2%80%99s-second-national-voluntary-review-sdgs-implementation-kicks




Date: 14 October 2022
Title: Mongolia has taken significant steps to protect against arbitrary detention; it is vital to continue the work, UN experts said
Content: 14 October 2022
ULAANBAATAR/GENEVA (14 October 2022) – The Mongolian justice system has progressed significantly towards protection against arbitrary detention, but it is important not to stop, as further measures are needed if rights are to be fully respected, UN experts said today.
While commending the government for multiple reforms during the past five years, a delegation from the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention said arrests without a judicial warrant are still the norm rather than the exception in Mongolia and individuals are routinely interrogated in police custody without the presence of a lawyer.
“It is concerning that criminal investigators and prosecutors enjoy vast and unchecked powers, while defendants are not afforded all the guarantees of due process, disregarding the equality of arms,” the group said a statement at the end an official visit to the country.
It has made recommendations to the Government on how to further strengthen safeguards. “We welcome the reform of criminal justice laws, the enactment of a law on human rights defenders, as well as the establishment of a National Preventive Mechanism.
Nevertheless, these strategic decisions need to be effectively translated into practice, since the adequate implementation of the law cannot be taken for granted.” The experts said the judicial system is under immense pressure, due to the lack of new and specialised courts, shortage of staff and case overload.
“This situation could be preventing judges from devoting sufficient time to give detailed consideration to each case, opting for simply granting the prosecutors’ request, without giving due consideration to the arguments and evidence presented by the defence.” Some crimes were vaguely worded or not properly defined in legislation, including provisions used to combat the spread of COVID-19.
“It is concerning that these could be used to interfere with the legitimate work of human rights defenders, especially as they protest against strategic development projects or to restrict the peaceful expressions of opinions and freedoms of assembly and association,” the experts said.
The Working Group said Mongolia was tackling what appears to be a widespread problem of alcohol abuse and it recommended that the Government approach this from a health and social perspective, for example, by implementing community-based treatment. Resorting to deprivation of liberty and tasking the security and law enforcement agencies or officials with the prime responsibility was not the answer.
During the visit, from 3 to 14 October, the delegation – Elina Steinerte and Matthew Gillett – met Government officials, judges, prosecutors and lawyers, civil society representatives and other stakeholders. They visited 21 facilities and interviewed around 65 people deprived of their liberty. A final report on the visit will be presented to the Human Rights Council in September 2023.
ENDS
The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention was established by the former Commission on Human Rights in 1991 to investigate instances of alleged arbitrary deprivation of liberty. Its mandate was clarified and extended by the Commission to cover the issue of administrative custody of asylum-seekers and immigrants. In September 2019, the Human Rights Council confirmed the scope of the Working Group's mandate and extended it for a further three-year period. The Working Group is comprised of five independent expert members from various regions of the world: Ms. Miriam Estrada-Castillo (Ecuador; Chair-Rapporteur), Mr. Mumba Malila (Zambia; Vice-Chair); Ms. Elina Steinerte (Latvia); Ms. Priya Gopalan (Malaysia); and Mr. Matthew Gillett (New Zealand).
Database of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention.
The Working Group is part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page — Mongolia 
For press inquiries related to the Working Group, please contact Ms. Lucie Viersma (lucie.viersma@un.org); Ms. Margarita Nechaeva (margarita.nechaeva@un.org); Mr. Francisco Alfonzo (francisco.alfonzo@un.org) or write to hrc-wg-ad@un.org.
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts please contact: Jeremy Laurence (jeremy.laurence@un.org); Renato de Souza (renato.rosariodesouza@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in? Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org&nbsp;
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/203227-mongolia-has-taken-significant-steps-protect-against-arbitrary-detention-it-vital-continue




Date: 30 September 2022
Title: Mongolia: UN experts on arbitrary detention launch official visit
Content: 30 September 2022
The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention will make an official visit to Mongolia, from 3 to 14 October 2022, to assess the country’s situation regarding the deprivation of liberty.
The delegation – comprising two members of the Group, Elina Steinerte and Matthew Gillett – will visit Ulaanbaatar as well as other parts of the country. They will meet Government officials, civil society groups and other relevant stakeholders during the visit.
The experts will also visit places of deprivation of liberty, including prisons, police stations, and institutions for children, migrants, and people with psychosocial disabilities, to gather information for their assessment.
The Working Group will share their preliminary observations at a press conference on 14 October 2022, at 12:00 local time in the Conference Room of the UN House building, in United Nations Street 14, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. Access will be strictly limited to journalists.
The Working Group will present its final report on the visit to the Human Rights Council in September 2023.
For media registration for the Press Conference, please contact Ms. Soyolmaa Dolgor (soyolmaa.dolgor@un.org).
The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention was established by the former Commission on Human Rights in 1991 to investigate instances of alleged arbitrary deprivation of liberty. Its mandate was clarified and extended by the Commission to cover the issue of administrative custody of asylum-seekers and immigrants. In September 2019, the Human Rights Council confirmed the scope of the Working Group's mandate and extended it for a further three-year period. The Working Group is comprised of five independent expert members from various regions of the world: Ms. Miriam Estrada-Castillo (Ecuador; Chair-Rapporteur), Mr. Mumba Malila (Zambia; Vice-Chair); Ms. Elina Steinerte (Latvia); Ms. Priya Gopalan (Malaysia); and Mr. Matthew Gillett (New Zealand).
Database of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention.
The Working Group is part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights
system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page — Mongolia
For press inquiries related to the Working Group, please contact Ms. Lucie Viersma (lucie.viersma@un.org); Ms. Margarita Nechaeva (margarita.nechaeva@un.org); Mr. Francisco Alfonzo (francisco.alfonzo@un.org) or write to hrc-wg-ad@un.org.
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts please contact: Renato de Souza (renato.rosariodesouza@un.org) or Dharisha Indraguptha (dharisha.indraguptha@un.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at
http://www.standup4humanrights.org


URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/201833-mongolia-un-experts-arbitrary-detention-launch-official-visit




Date: 09 September 2022
Title: SDG OPEN DAY - "ТОГТВОРТОЙ ХӨГЖЛИЙН ЗОРИЛГО" ӨДӨРЛӨГТ ТАВТАЙ МОРИЛНО УУ!
Content: 09 September 2022
ӨДӨРЛӨГИЙН ХӨТӨЛБӨР | ТАЛБАЙН ЗУРАГЛАЛ
ХЭВЛЭЛИЙН МЭДЭЭ
Монгол Улс Тогтвортой хөгжлийн зорилгыг улс орондоо нутагшуулан хэрэгжүүлэх амлалт өгсөн анхны орнуудын нэг юм. 2020 онд Монгол Улсын Их Хурлаас дэлхий нийтийн эдгээр зорилгуудтай уялдуулан хөгжлийн тэргүүлэх чиглэлүүдээ тодорхойлон “Алсын хараа-2050” урт хугацааны хөгжлийн бодлогын баримт бичгийг баталсан билээ. Тогтвортой хөгжлийн зорилгыг амжилттай хэрэгжүүлснээр “Алсын хараа 2050”-ыг Монгол Улсын урт хугацааны хөгжлийн бодлогын эхний 10 жилийн зорилго, зорилт хангагдах боломж бүрдэх юм.
Тогтвортой хөгжлийн 169 зорилт бүхий 17 зорилго нь НҮБ-ын гишүүн болох 193 улс орны нэгдэн орсон бүх нийтийн зорилго юм. 2030 он гэхэд хэнийг ч хөгжлөөс орхигдуулалгүй ядуурал болон өлсгөлөнгийн бүх хэлбэрийг эцэс болгож, эх дэлхийгээ хамгаалах, шударга ёсыг түгээн дэлгэрүүлэх мөн тэгш бус байдлыг арилгаж, хөгжил цэцэглэлтэд хүрэх талаар эдгээр улс орнуудын удирдагчид үүрэг амлалтаа өгч нэгдсэн байна.
Иймд, Тогтвортой хөгжлийн зорилгыг олон нийтэд сурталчлан таниулах, сайн туршлага, шинэлэг санаачилга, хөгжлийн шийдлийг түгээн дэлгэрүүлж, урамшуулах, 17 зорилгын хэрэгжилтэд олон нийтийн оролцоог нэмэгдүүлэх үүднээс Монгол дахь Нэгдсэн Үндэстний Байгууллага, Монгол Улсын Эдийн засаг, хөгжлийн яам, Гадаад харилцааны яам, Нийслэлийн Засаг даргын Тамгын газар, Монголын Үндэсний худалдаа, аж үйлдвэрийн танхим хамтран “Тогтвортой хөгжлийн зорилго” өдөрлөгийг 9 дүгээр сарын 10-ны өдөр  бүх нийтэд нээлттэйгээр“Сүхбаатарын талбай”-д зохион байгуулах гэж байна.
Энэхүү өдөрлөгийн хүрээнд төрийн, төрийн бус, хувийн хэвшлийн, боловсролын болон Монгол улсад үйл ажиллагаа явуулж буй олон улсын байгууллага, төсөл хөтөлбөр зэрэг нийт 120 байгууллага ТХЗ-д чиглэсэн үйл ажиллагаа, санаачилгуудынхаа ололт амжилт, үр дүнг танилцуулахаар нэг дор цуглах болно.
Өдөрлөгийн үед ТХЗ-ыг сурталчлан таниулах, иргэдийн мэдлэг ойлголтыг нэмэгдүүлэхэд чиглэсэн олон тусгай хөтөлбөрүүдийг зохион байгуулна. Тухайлбал:
Мөн хүүхэд, залуучуудад зориулсан олон төрлийн хөгжөөнт сонирхолтой хөтөлбөрүүдийг толилуулахаар зэхээд байна.
Өдөрлөгт оролцогч байгууллагуудын асруудын үйл ажиллагаа 9 цагаас эхлэн 17 цаг хүртэл үргэлжилнэ.
Өдөрлөгийн нээлтийн ажиллагаа 12 цагт болно. Нээлтийн ажиллагаанд Засгийн газрын гишүүд, дипломат төлөөлөгчийн газрын болон олон улсын байгууллагын төлөөлөгчид оролцоно.
Өдөрлөгийн бас нэгэн онцлох хөтөлбөр нь “Тогтвортой хөгжлийн манлайлагч”-ийг уралдаанд шалгарсан иргэд, олон нийтийн, боловсролын болон хувийн хэвшлийг манлайлагчид шагнал гардуулах ёслолын ажиллагаа 15 цагт болно.
Өдөрлөгийн талаарх дэлгэрэнгүй мэдээллийг https://www.facebook.com/events/999488330746905/?active_tab=discussion холбоосоос авна уу.
ХОЛБОО БАРИХ:
НҮБ-ын Суурин зохицуулагчийн газрын Мэдээлэл харилцааны ажилтан Д.Соёлмаа
Утас: 94111220
Имэйл: soyolmaa.dolgor@un.org

ТХЗ өдөрлөгийн зохион байгуулагч, зөвлөх Б.Тэнгис
Утас: 99928572
Имэйл: jvtengis@gmail.com
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/198551-sdg-open-day-%D1%82%D0%BE%D0%B3%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D1%82%D0%BE%D0%B9-%D1%85%D3%A9%D0%B3%D0%B6%D0%BB%D0%B8%D0%B9%D0%BD-%D0%B7%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B3%D0%BE-%D3%A9%D0%B4%D3%A9%D1%80%D0%BB%D3%A9%D0%B3%D1%82-%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%B2%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%B9-%D0%BC%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%BD%D0%BE-%D1%83%D1%83




Date: 07 September 2022
Title: The 2022 International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies
Content: 07 September 2022
On November 26, 2019, the Second Committee of the 74th session of the United Nations (UN) General Assembly adopted a resolution designating 7 September as the “International Day of Clean Air for blue skies” (herein referred to as the Day).
2022 will be the third Day held. Its theme is “The Air We Share.”
The International Day of Clean Air for blue skies envisions bringing together all interested parties to enhance international cooperation to attain clean air. It serves as a platform to strengthen global solidarity and political momentum for action to improve air quality. The Day also aims to improve global knowledge on air pollution by increasing scientific evidence, improving data and providing tools that help governments, the private sector, and communities take decisions and actions to clean the air and protect health and livelihoods.
Objective
By undertaking these objectives, the Day aims to:
The Theme for 2022 is “The Air We Share”.
Air pollution knows no national borders and is all pervasive. The theme highlights this while reminding people that any damage to our atmosphere, or actions that contribute to exacerbating critical issues (as noted above), is a cross we all collectively bear. We need to be more mindful not only for ourselves, but for all humanity. No nation or people are exempt from its effects, and it is our collective responsibility to act now. The theme also has an equity lens and relates to our essential human rights whereby a safe, clean, healthy, and sustainable environment is a fundamental rights of all. In addition to this,      climate change is inextricably linked to air pollution, wherein one cannot be addressed or resolved without the other.
It complements the World Environment Day 2022 theme ‘Only One Earth’ to highlight that we have one shared atmosphere and the Stockholm +50 theme “A healthy planet for the prosperity of all – our responsibility, our opportunity”. It focuses on the transboundary nature of air pollution-local, national, regional and global, emphasizing the need for collective accountability and action, for collective health and prosperity.
The theme takes into consideration the ease of translation, international audiences and the ability for all to instantly comprehend the message due to its clarity. The theme was developed in consultation with UNEP’s regional information officers, air quality project officers, and translators, to ensure regional relevance and cultural and linguistic adaptability. Like previous years, this year’s theme is also broad enough for a diverse array of partners to adapt to highlight their specific work on air pollution.
The hashtag will be #TheAirWeShare and #WorldCleanAirDay.
Contacts:
D. Soyolmaa, Communications and Advocacy officer, UN Resident Coordinator Office
Soyolmaa.dolgor@un.org
Tel: 94111220
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/198186-2022-international-day-clean-air-blue-skies




Date: 02 September 2022
Title: Global Digital Dialogue 2022 – led by Mongolia: Going digital to transform education, create sustainable food systems, support inclusive economies, and unlock systems change
Content: 02 September 2022
As a champion for the  Secretary-General's Digital Cooperation Roadmap, the UN Country Team (UNCT) in Mongolia, together with its key partners, is working to unlock systems change by hitching local digitalization strategies to transform education, food systems, climate/ environment, inclusive economic recovery and other global commitments.
In this regard, Mongolia’s Ministry of Digital Development and Communications (MDDC) and UNCT Mongolia will jointly organize a first-ever Global Digital Dialogue (GDD) on 5 and 6 September 2022. The fully virtual event brings together policymakers, development partners, private sector entities, civil society, think tanks and other key leaders from around the world, including leaders from Bangladesh, Estonia, India, New Zealand, and Australia.
The GDD will serve as a forum to exchange country-level experience, best practices, lessons, and challenges around transforming countries towards sustainable digital development.
The Global Dialogue aims to contribute to global and regional level discussions, including the consultations on the Global Digital Compact to be finalized and adopted at the Summit of the Future in 2023, which aims to establish a set of shared principles for the digital future, highlighting issues such as internet fragmentation, accountability criteria for discrimination, data protection, and the regulation of AI.
As the United Nations Secretary-General Mr. António Guterres notes, the new technological era is upon us – one that beckons with vast opportunity but also new risks to global peace, stability and development. This Global Dialogue aims to ask the fundamental questions and inspire solutions about the future we want, to determine against the backdrop of the digital transformation, what kind of world are we going to leave for our children.
Speakers will include the Prime Minister of Mongolia (to be confirmed), Minister of Digital Development and Communications of Mongolia, Minister of ICT of Bangladesh, the Secretary General’s Envoy on Technology, and leaders from Singapore, India, Australia, Estonia, and more.
The event, starting at 3 pm Ulaanbaatar time on both days, is open to the public (register here).
Contacts:
E. Urantsetseg, Press Officer, MDDC
urantsetseg@mddc.gov.mn
Tel: 94999598

D. Soyolmaa, Communications and Advocacy officer, UN Resident Coordinator Office
Soyolmaa.dolgor@un.org
Tel: 94111220
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/197539-global-digital-dialogue-2022-%E2%80%93-led-mongolia-going-digital-transform-education-create




Date: 09 August 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General pays tribute to Mongolia's commitment to being a nuclear-free zone and calls on countries to follow suit
Content: 09 August 2022
Mr. President U. Khurelsukh expressed his gratitude to the United Nations and the UN Chief for the unwavering contribution to the development of Mongolia, stretching from support to democratic governance and human rights, to socio-economic development, climate change adaptation, and protection the environment in Mongolia.
Mr. Guterres highlighted that Mongolia is a valued UN partner, “a symbol of peace” and an increasingly important contributor to the work of the Organization.
UN Secretary General’s visit to Mongolia coincides with the 20th anniversary of Mongolia’s participation in UN peacekeeping operations. Mongolia is a country that allocates the highest per capital contribution to peacekeeping.
Secretary-General paid a tribute to the Mongolian peacekeepers and their commitment to the protection of civilians worldwide.
Mongolia’s role in multilateralism
The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Battsetseg Batmunkh, held extended talks with Mr. Guterres on bilateral cooperation between Mongolia and United Nations.
Mr. Guterres also applauded Mongolia’s efforts in becoming a constructive player in promoting regional peace and security, exemplified by the Ulaanbaatar Dialogue Initiative on Northeast Asia Security. “I am particularly encouraged by the inclusion of young voices in the Dialogue, which is one of the priorities I outlined in my report on Our Common Agenda,” noted Mr. Guterres.
Minister B. Battsetseg reaffirmed that Mongolia will continue its cooperation with the UN. Mongolia will continue to support the International Think-Tank on Landlocked Developing Countries, established at the initiative of Mongolia in Ulaanbaatar, to become an effective excellence center for advancing our common agenda to implement both the Vienna Program of Action and the Agenda 2030 fully and effectively.
Mr. Guterres said: “Mongolia may be landlocked, but its constructive foreign policy of dialogue and cooperation is central to building bridges and promoting sustainable development.”
Tree planting as a response to climate action
President U.Khurelsukh and Mr. Guterres took part in the tree planting ceremony at the National Park in Ulaanbaatar, along with youth, children and Mongolian peacekeepers.
The UN Chief praised the ambitious initiative by the President of Mongolia in launching the national campaign to plant one billion trees by 2030 in response to climate change threats and desertification.
In his remarks, Mr. President emphasized that tree planting and forestation are one of the most effective ways to combat desertification and reduce the impact of climate change.
He also expressed his appreciation to the people of Mongolia, especially to the youth, who are actively participating in the ‘1 billion tree’ campaign.
While applauding Mongolia’s example in addressing climate adaptation through the sustainable management of natural resources, Secretary-General highlighted that Mongolia has an enormous potential to be a renewables leader – delivering energy security as well as creating economic opportunities.
Mongolia also has the potential to emerge as a major player in the renewable energy supply chain with its copper resources.
Visiting the UN House: Promoting One UN approach
The UN Mongolia family extended a heartfelt welcome to their Chief. He had an engaging and interactive time with the beneficiaries of the UN work and got acquainted with the UN's joint efforts in supporting Mongolia in its progress towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals.
UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra highlighted that the UN Country Team is working to make the UN reform agenda a reality on the ground and ensure its effective implementation in the country.
Other bilateral meetings
UN Secretary-General had a bilateral meeting with the Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Zandanshatar Gombojav, where they exchanged views on strengthening the legislative body of the State to ensure rule of law and advance democracy.
Prime Minister of Mongolia, Mr. Oyun-Erdene Luvsanvandan hosted a luncheon to welcome Mr. Guterres. Prime Minister shared about his ambitious plan to make Mongolia a digital nation – a big-ticket item on the SG’s Our Common Agenda to achieve Sustainable Development Goals.
Images from the UN Secretary-General's official visit to Mongolia


URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/194084-un-secretary-general-pays-tribute-mongolias-commitment-being-nuclear-free-zone-and-calls




Date: 05 July 2022
Title: Mongolia's stakeholders in education envisioned a shared vision for future of education
Content: 05 July 2022
Over 130 participants representing 44 state and non-state actors and international organizations have endorsed Mongolia’s commitments and policy recommendations to transform the country’s education establishment into a system based on needs and linked to job market demands.
Prior to the national consultation, a series of dialogues and consultations were organized under the leadership of Mongolia’s Education Minister, Enkh-Amgalan Luvsantseren who believes that “more participation means less mistakes”. He further highlighted that the Ministry, first time in its history, was able to consult with such a wide range of players to discuss the much-needed transformation in Mongolia’s education system. The consultations gave voice to youth, educators, policy-makers, private sector and civil society organizations, urban and rural dwellers, children and parents, boys and girls, and women and men from 10 to over 60 years old, representing a whole range of social groups.
The consultations were held as a part of the United Nations member states that supported Our Common Agenda, a policy blueprint aimed at accelerating progress toward SDGs, especially after the damages and backslides caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The United Nations Secretary General’s Transforming Education initiative put forward at the Our Common Agenda facilitation discussion with heads of states in 2021, was broadly accepted as a basis for achieving all SDGs.
“Transformation of education is essential to unlocking a breakthrough towards a safer, more equal and peaceful future.  In this context, countries are encouraged to hold inclusive, multi-sectoral consultations to develop a shared vision and commitments at the highest level to transform education,” said the UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia, Tapan Mishra, addressing the participants of the national consultation. “Progress in SDG 4 on Education plays a pivotal role in advancing the multi-dimensional and integrated nature of the 2030 Agenda.”
As the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the existing education gaps and significantly disrupted the education systems around the world, each of the UN member states has been organizing the Transforming Education national consultations. The commitments to transform the XXI century education systems in their respective countries are to be presented at the Transforming Education Summit (TES) to be convened during the 77th General Assembly in September.
The TES June pre-summit in Paris Mongolia showcased some notable achievements in digital learning, set in place during the COVID-19 lockdown and school closures. However, there were challenges as well. Thus, according to a UNICEF-led study in Mongolia, one-third out of 600 thousand school children are at high risk of learning loss due to the inability to access distance learning. Children with disabilities, children from vulnerable groups, and children who live in violence were reported to have experienced a digital divide due to a lack of access to technologies and/or the ability to beneficially use those for extracting information and facilitating knowledge.
“Based on our experiences and efforts of delivering an uninterrupted education during the COVID-19 pandemic, there is no question that hybrid learning is to be firmly set in our educational system,” says S. Sanjaabadam, the Academic Secretary of the Mongolian National Institute of Education Research. “Digital learning experience has pointed at our weak and strong sides. Using new technologies and innovation so much supported by the Mongolian Ministry of Education is the basis of the digital transformation in Mongolia’s education system,” added S. Sanjaabadam.
Re-training of teachers, and re-formulating the pedagogical teaching approaches and standards to ensure the quality of teaching through all levels of education starting from pre-school to academia was identified as one of the key areas of a successful transformation in the sector.
Education funding that does not mainly relate to state subsidies but is able to attract private sector support and involvement was seen as a powerful enabler for the system of education of the future.
One of the young participants at the consultation with the youth said: “We, the children are grateful for you, the adults, consulting with us on this very important topic of transforming education. It is the greatest investment you are making in education.”
The participatory exercise of consultations on how to transform education to meet the challenges of the future and create the basis for a prosperous, happy and healthy society, held across the entire country has already given productive results. The ideas raised by the stakeholders were taken aboard by the lawmakers and reflected in the draft revisions of the legislative package on education reform to be submitted to Mongolia’s Parliament this fall.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/189005-mongolias-stakeholders-education-envisioned-shared-vision-future-education




Date: 31 May 2022
Title: Хувьсан өөрчлөгдөж буй чиг хандлага: НҮБ-ын стратегийн түншлэлээр дамжуулан Монгол Улсын тогтвортой хөгжлийг хангахад хувийн хэвшлийн үүрэг, оролцоо
Content: 31 May 2022
Энэхүү уулзалтын зорилго нь Монгол Улсын Тогтвортой хөгжлийн зорилгуудыг хэрэгжүүлэхэд дэмжлэг үзүүлэх зорилгоор НҮБ-ын Тогтвортой хөгжлийн хамтын ажиллагааны хүрээ (UNSDCF), Үндэсний санхүүжилтийн нэгдсэн тогтолцоо (INFF) болон Нөөцийг дайчлах, түншлэлийн стратеги (RMPS) зэрэг стратегийн олон талт түншлэлийн хүрээнд мэдлэг, туршлага, технологи, санхүүгийн нөөцийг дайчлан тогтвортой хөгжлийн төлөөх хувийн хэвшлийн түншлэл, оролцоог нэмэгдүүлэхэд оршиж байна.
Хувийн хэвшлийн байгууллагууд НҮБ-ын үйл ажиллагааг зөвхөн нийгмийн хариуцлагыг хэрэгжүүлэх, НҮБ-ын төслүүдийг санхүүжүүлэх хэмээн хардаг бол уг ойлголтын зөрүүг арилгах буюу хувийн хэвшил нь өөрсдийн бизнесийн загварууд, техникийн болон бусад хэрэгцээт туршлагыг тогтвортой хөгжлийн зорилтуудтай мөн уялдуулах талаар ярилцав.
Монголын Бизнесийн Зөвлөлийн гишүүд болон Нэгдсэн Үндэстний Байгууллага нь Ногоон хөгжил, Ногоон бизнес, Ногоон санхүүжилтийн боломжууд (сэргээгдэх эрчим хүч, эрчим хүчний хэмнэлт, дижиталчлал гэх мэт) чиглэлээр хамтран ажиллах арга боломжийг судалж хувийн хэвшлийн мэдлэг, боловсролыг дээшлүүлэх зорилго тавилаа. Бид мөн хүүхдэд ээлтэй бизнесийн арга барилыг бий болгох талаар хамтран ажиллахаар төлөвлөж байна.
Эхний хэлэлцүүлэг Хүний хөгжил, сайн сайхан байдал сэдвийн хүрээнд зохион байгуулагдсан бөгөөд НҮБ-ын Тогтвортой хөгжлийн хамтын ажиллагааны хүрээнд 2027 онд хүрсэн байх Стратегийн зорилт нэг буюу хот, хөдөөгийн иргэд, ялангуяа нэн эмзэг буюу хөгжлөөс орхигдох эрсдэл бүхий хүн амын бүлгүүд өөрсдийн нөөц боломжийг бүрэн дүүрэн, эрх тэгш ашиглаж, хүний эрхэд суурилсан, хүртээмжтэй, жендэрийн мэдрэмжтэй цочролд тэсвэртэй, эрүүл мэнд болон хоол, шим тэжээл, боловсрол, нийгмийн хамгаалал болон бусад үйлчилгээг ижил тэгш хүртэх боломжийг бий болгох асуудлаар ярилцлаа.
Хэлэлцүүлгийг Монголын Бизнесийн Зөвлөлийн Удирдах зөвлөлийн дарга Ц.Түмэнцогт удирдан чиглүүлж, хэлэлцүүлэгт НҮБ-ын Монгол дахь Хүүхдийн сангийн дэд суурин төлөөлөгч Аяако Кайно, НҮБ-ын Монгол дахь Хүн амын сангийн суурин төлөөлөгч Доктор Халид Шарифи, Мобиком Корпорацийн Гүйцэтгэх захирал Кожи Курушима, Олон улсын шилжилт хөдөлгөөний байгууллагын хөтөлбөрийн менежер Виктор Лутенко, Оюу Толгой Компанийн орон нутаг, олон нийт хариуцсан ахлах менежер О.Цэрэннадмид нар оролцов.
Хоёр дахь хэлэлцүүлэг Ногоон, хүртээмжтэй,  тогтвортой өсөлт сэдвийн дор зохион байгуулагдаж НҮБ-ын Тогтвортой хөгжлийн хамтын ажиллагааны хүрээнд 2027 он гэхэд хүрсэн байх Стратегийн зорилт Хоёр буюу Монгол Улсын эдийн засгийг илүү төрөлжсөн, шинэлэг, үр бүтээмжтэй, хүртээмжтэй, “ногоон” болж, бүс нутгийн  тэнцвэртэй хөгжлийг хангасан, ялангуяа залуус, эмэгтэйчүүдийн зохистой амьжиргааг тэтгэх, ХХI   зууны эрэлт хэрэгцээтэй  ур чадварыг хөгжүүлэх, нүүрсхүчлийн хий бага ялгаруулах хөгжлийг дэмжих чиглэлээр хэлэлцүүлэг өрнөлөө.
Хэлэлцүүлгийг Монгол дахь НҮБ-ын Суурин зохицуулагч Тапан Мишра удирдан чиглүүлж, хэлэлцүүлэгт Олон улсын хөдөлмөрийн байгууллагын ахлах мэргэжилтэн, Байгаль орчин ба зохистой хөдөлмөрийн асуудал хариуцсан Ази Номхон Далайн бүсийн зохицуулагч Кристина Мартинекс, Хаан Банкны Дэд захирал Б.Эрдэнэдэлгэр, НҮБ-ын Хүнс, хөдөө аж ахуйн байгууллагын Монгол дахь Шадар суурин төлөөлөгч Г.Нямжаргал, НҮБ-ын Аж үйлдвэр хөгжлийн байгууллагын Төслийн зохицуулагч Г.Мөнх-Болор, НҮБ-ын Хөгжлийн хөтөлбөрийн Эдийн засагч Яасин Жанжуа нар оролцлоо.
Хэлэлцүүлэгт оролцсон НҮБ болон түүний харьяа байгууллагууд түүнчлэн хувийн хэвшлийн төлөөлөл нь дээрх зорилтуудыг хэрхэн хангаж ажиллаж буй, мөн дээрх заасан чиглэлүүдээр олон улсад, бүсийн хэмжээнд болон Монгол улсад хувийн хэвшилтэй хэрхэн хамтарч ажиллаж байгаа талаар туршлагаасаа хуваалцав. Түүнчлэн, НҮБ-тай хамтран ажилласнаар хувийн хэвшилд санхүүжилтийн ямар боломжууд гарч ирэх, ялангуяа Ногоон хөгжлийн сантай хамтран ажиллах боломжийн талаар ярилцлаа.
Хуралдааны төгсгөлд Тогтвортой хөгжлийн зорилтыг хэрэгжүүлэх өдөрлөгт Хувийн хэвшил хэрхэн оролцох боломжтой талаар НҮБ-ын Монгол дахь Суурин зохицуулагчийн газрын Мэдээлэл харилцааны мэргэжилтэн Д.Соёлмаа танилцуулга хийв.
Хуралдааны талаар нэмэлт мэдээлэл авах бол + 976-94118245, +976-94111220   эсвэл info@bcmongolia.org, soyolmaa.dolgor@un.org  хаягаар холбогдоно уу.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/184084-%D1%85%D1%83%D0%B2%D1%8C%D1%81%D0%B0%D0%BD-%D3%A9%D3%A9%D1%80%D1%87%D0%BB%D3%A9%D0%B3%D0%B4%D3%A9%D0%B6-%D0%B1%D1%83%D0%B9-%D1%87%D0%B8%D0%B3-%D1%85%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B4%D0%BB%D0%B0%D0%B3%D0%B0-%D0%BD%D2%AF%D0%B1-%D1%8B%D0%BD-%D1%81%D1%82%D1%80%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B5%D0%B3%D0%B8%D0%B9%D0%BD-%D1%82%D2%AF%D0%BD%D1%88%D0%BB%D1%8D%D0%BB%D1%8D%D1%8D%D1%80-%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B6%D1%83%D1%83%D0%BB%D0%B0%D0%BD-%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%BD%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%BB-%D1%83%D0%BB%D1%81%D1%8B%D0%BD




Date: 27 May 2022
Title: UN Resident Coordinator meeting with the Ulaanbaatar City Mayor
Content: 27 May 2022
The UN Resident Coordinator had the opportunity to introduce the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for Mongolia to be implemented from 2023 to 2027. This strategic document was signed by the Government of Mongolia and the United Nations in Mongolia on 20 May.
Mr. Tapan Mishra reiterated that the UN system will continue to cooperate with the Ulaanbaatar city government to support urban development to make the capital city of Mongolia more sustainable, inclusive, and people-friendly.
Ulaanbaatar City has prepared the SDGs indicators and targets in the context of the Capital City, in partnership with the UNDP and adopted it by the UB city representative khural.
Mr. Mishra applauded the tremendous efforts undertaken for the localization of the SDGs.
Mayor D. Sumiyabazar highlighted key achievements in the city’s sustainable, green, and inclusive development. He stressed the importance of making Ulaanbaatar more friendly for people with disabilities and offered to cooperate with the UN to support SME development to create more income-generating opportunities for city residents.
The parties agreed to cooperate on organizing an SDG promotion event to raise awareness and call for further public action on the SDGs.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/183641-un-resident-coordinator-meeting-ulaanbaatar-city-mayor




Date: 20 May 2022
Title: The Government of Mongolia and the United Nations jointly commit to Mongolia’s sustainable development cooperation over the next 5 years
Content: 20 May 2022
The UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) for Mongolia 2023-2027 is closely aligned with the national development agenda articulated in Vision 2050, Mongolia’s long-term development policy and UN development system reforms. By mutually committing to the UNSDCF, the Government of Mongolia and the UN agree to work together for Mongolia to advance in sustainable development as a prosperous country characterized by an inclusive, resilient, healthy, and safe environment, and a cohesive society based on the rule of law and human rights.
The UN Country Team, in extensive and multiple consultations with all relevant stakeholders, formulated its vision and three strategic priorities committed to human development and well-being; green, inclusive and sustainable growth; and people-centred governance, the rule of law, and human rights.
At the signing ceremony, Minister B. Battsetseg underscored the importance of the new framework to accelerate the implementation of national development policies, implement national initiatives, and contribute to joint efforts for sustainable development being made by the international community.
“Mongolia is proud to have partnered with the UN system for over 60 years, and long-standing cooperation has been making a valuable contribution to national socio-economic development,” she added.
Minister B. Javkhlan highlighted the importance of the joint commitment to address the socio-economic and environmental challenges identified in this strategic document to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
The cooperation framework is being signed at a pivotal and challenging time, as the world—including Mongolia—grapples with the aftermath of the pandemic, and with less than eight years to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as stressed by UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra during the signing ceremony.
“The humongous task at hand cannot be accomplished without joint implementation by the government and strong support from all stakeholders,” said Tapan Mishra.
The new cooperation framework will accelerate the SDGs in Mongolia through the UN system’s collective offer from 23 entities in Mongolia, resident and non-resident.
The UN’s “leave no one behind” approach and human rights-based principles are central to implementing the UNSDCF. Guided by the UNSDCF as an overarching document, the UN entities in Mongolia will develop their country programmes to bring the vision and strategic priorities outlined in the cooperation framework to fruition.
In partnership with the government, development partners, private sector, civil society, and others, the UN system in Mongolia will work to achieve these goals through technical assistance, capacity building, innovative pilot initiatives, policy advice, catalysing development finance, social mobilisation, and more.
------
Media contacts:
J. Altantuya, Press Officer, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Tel: 88086680
Email: altantuya.j@mfa.gov.mn
D. Soyolmaa, Communications and Advocacy Officer, UN Resident Coordinator Office in Mongolia
Tel: 94111220
Email: soyolmaa.dolgor@un.org
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/182634-government-mongolia-and-united-nations-jointly-commit-mongolia%E2%80%99s-sustainable-development




Date: 23 March 2022
Title: Multi-stakeholder Council for Sustainable Development of Mongolia launched
Content: 23 March 2022
The main objective of MCSD is to support the country in fulfilling its commitments to realize the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
In his opening remarks, the Speaker of the Great Khural of Mongolia, Mr G.Zandanshatar emphasized that implementation of the SDGs can’t be achieved alone by the Government, therefore he stressed the importance of participation of all relevant stakeholders including the public, private sector, civil society and the donor community. He further stressed the greater need for better coordination and coherence between all stakeholders to achieve the common goal – the sustainable development of Mongolia.
The first meeting of the MCSD was attended by the members of the Sub-Committee on the SDGs of the Great Khural, representatives from the UN systems, international development partners, private sector and academia, who comprise of the MCSD.
The MCSD will support the SDG sub-committee of the State Great Khural in its role to:
United Nations Resident Coordinator, Tapan Mishra congratulated the Parliament of Mongolia for its leadership in bringing the importance of the implementation of the SDGs on the policy-making level and acknowledged the “essential role of national parliaments through their enactment of legislation and adoption of budgets, and their role in ensuring accountability for the effective implementation of our commitments” as highlighted in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
He further expressed that UN Mongolia stands ready to join forces with all stakeholders in the acceleration of the SDGs in the remaining years till 2030.
Please refer to the full remarks by the UN Resident Coordinator here.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/175675-multi-stakeholder-council-sustainable-development-mongolia-launched




Date: 21 February 2022
Title: A national workshop on exploring policy options to support Mongolia build better and achieve sustainable development
Content: 21 February 2022
The United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office (RCO) in Mongolia, and the Ministry of Economy and Development (MED) just kicked off a two-day national workshop on “Building forward better: Securing inclusive, resilient and green development in Mongolia”, to be held virtually on 21-22 February 2022.
Vice-Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Narantsogt Sanjaa highlighted in his opening remarks that the Government of Mongolia has just recently adopted its New Revival Policy that will lead Mongolia on the sustainable recovery from the enormous impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Mongolia’s economy.
He stressed that the macroeconomic models and tools discussed at the workshop will be instrumental for the policy directions to improve the basic infrastructure and stimulate the economy, as set out in the New Revival Policy.
The discussion focused on key policy areas such as Mongolia’s medium-term policy planning, major development opportunities and challenges, and the socio-economic and environmental implications of policy options to build forward better.
UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra underscored the timeliness and importance of this national workshop that came at a crucial time when the Government of Mongolia is leading their important New Revival policy.
“We welcome the Prime Minister’s recent decision to reopen the country for business, inviting investors as well as tourists to this beautiful country with tremendous economic potential,” said Tapan Mishra.
Especially in the face of the ongoing challenges that all countries encounter, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, global economic recession, and climate change, there is an urgent need for better policy coherence and integrated measures to build forward better and fulfil sustainable development goals across all three dimensions: economic, social and environmental.
At the workshop, the UN’s Under-Secretary-General and the Executive Secretary of UNESCAP, Mrs Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana emphasized the importance of having a longer-term perspective to the recovery plan that will ensure leaving no one behind, building stronger national resilience and preparedness to future crises and focusing on sustainability by a firm commitment to net-zero emission to ensure sustainable and inclusive development.
As a result of this national workshop, participants discussed policy scenarios simulated using a macroeconomic model that is based on the region-wide ESCAP macroeconomic model but tailored to Mongolia’s context and their socio-economic and environmental implications and possible incorporate in the national policy planning process. The national workshop will be followed by the technical seminar for the Ministry of Economy and Development of Mongolia to build its forecasting and policy planning capacity.
For further information, please visit the following website:
https://www.unescap.org/events/2022/national-workshop-mongolia-building-forward-better
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/172853-national-workshop-exploring-policy-options-support-mongolia-build-better-and-achieve




Date: 08 December 2021
Title: UN Special Rapporteur: It's time to accelerate translation of laws on violence against women into reality in Mongolia
Content: 08 December 2021
In the past 10 years, key pieces of legislation on domestic violence, trafficking in people, gender equality, and witness and victim protection, among others, have set a legal framework to tackle gender-based violence, said the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, Reem Alsalem, in a statement at the end of an official visit to the country.
“They offer a solid basis for continuing with legal reform, including that needed to align national legislation with international standards,” she said.
“It is welcome that services for victims, like shelters, one-stop service centres and multidisciplinary teams, have been progressively expanded, including at provisional level. More needs to be done however to ensure their availability and viability, particularly for women in remote or rural areas.”
There is also a need to promote a gender-sensitive approach by these services, especially those designed to target women victims of domestic violence, Alsalem said. Currently, service providers, particularly State-run, place actions related to women victims of violence under the broader heading of family-related interventions or combine them with actions aimed at preventing violence against children.
The expert also called on the Government to widen the scope of its policies and services to explicitly identify, include and reach vulnerable groups who are particularly exposed to gender-based violence such as victims of trafficking, members of the LGBTI community and sex workers.
“Service providers, law enforcement and the justice system need to respond to the needs of all groups of women and girls, and to all types of violence they experience, not only domestic violence,” Alsalem added.
To be truly effective, prevention activities need to tackle the deep-seated harmful gender stereotypes that exist in Mongolian society and that normalise violence against women and blame victims.
“Bold, courageous campaigns, as well as human rights education, are necessary, including to address alcoholism, a triggering factor in many cases of violence,” the expert said.
During her 10-day mission, Alsalem met Government officials, members of Parliament, the Supreme Court, independent state institutions, international organizations, donors, financial institutions, civil society organizations and victims.
The Special Rapporteur will present her findings to the Human Rights Council in June 2022.
ENDS

Ms Reem Alsalem (Jordan) was appointed as Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences by the UN Human Rights Council in July 2021, to recommend measures, ways and means, at the national, regional and international levels, to eliminate violence against women and its causes, and to remedy its consequences. She holds a Masters in International Relations from the American University in Cairo, Egypt (2001) and a Masters in Human Rights Law from the University of Oxford, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (2003). She is an independent consultant on gender issues, the rights of refugees and migrants, transitional justice and humanitarian response.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page: Mongolia
For more information and media requests, please contact:
Ms. Renata Preturlan (+41 22 928 9254 / renata.preturlan@un.org)
For media inquiries related to other UN independent experts please contact:
Mr. Jeremy Laurence (+41 22 917 9383 / jlaurence@ohchr.org)
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
---
Concerned about the world we live in?
Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.
#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at
http://www.standup4humanrights.org
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/163979-un-special-rapporteur-its-time-accelerate-translation-laws-violence-against-women-reality




Date: 19 November 2021
Title: UN and Mongolia partnerships will shift from development assistance to development cooperation
Content: 19 November 2021
Today, the National Council for Sustainable Development convened under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Mongolia H.E L.Oyun-Erdene. The Council discussed the draft strategic priority areas and outcomes for the new United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework to be implemented from 2023 to 2027.
In his opening remarks, Prime Minister noted that the 60 years of fruitful cooperation between the UN and Mongolia will be further elevated to a new level of partnerships within this new cooperation framework.
He further expressed his appreciation for the UN Mongolia for aligning its strategic priorities with the Vision 2050 – the long-term development policy of Mongolia.
Mr. Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator highlighted that this Cooperation Framework is the first strategic document in Mongolia that is being elaborated within the UN development system reform.
He further noted that the UN Mongolia will fundamentally shift the development system approach from assistance to cooperation with Mongolia.
Thanks to the extensive consultations with its multistakeholder partners, including the Government agencies, private sector, development partners, CSO, academia and youth, the UN Mongolia envisions that its key priority areas of cooperation will be geared to human development and well-being, green, inclusive and sustainable growth, and people-centred governance, rule of law and human rights.
The Council meeting approved the draft strategic priorities and outcomes within the new UNSDCF to be implemented for 5 years since 2023.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/159262-un-and-mongolia-partnerships-will-shift-development-assistance-development-cooperation




Date: 17 November 2021
Title: Protecting National Critical Infrastructure from Terrorists' Cyber-Attacks in Mongolia
Content: 17 November 2021
Ulaanbaatar, 17 November 2021– The United Nations Counter-Terrorism Centre (UNCCT) of the United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism (UNOCT) concluded a national workshop on “Protecting national Critical Infrastructure from Terrorists’ Cyber-Attacks” in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. The event was opened by Mr. Tapan Mishra, United Nations Resident Coordinator to Mongolia and Mr. Odonbaatar Peljee, Director General of the National Counter-Terrorism Centre of Mongolia.
In his welcoming remarks, Mr. Tapan Mishra, United Nations Resident Coordinator to Mongolia highlighted that “the global COVID-19 pandemic created an additional reliance of society on the use of new technologies, which, consequently, increased the vulnerability of the population to terrorists’ cyber-attacks. Under the leadership of UNCCT and its Global Programme on Cybersecurity and New Technologies, this workshop is bringing the best cybersecurity and counter-terrorism expertise across the United Nations system and beyond to support Mongolia in establishing a solid critical infrastructure protection framework to prevent and respond to terrorist cyber-attacks against critical infrastructure”.
Mr. Odonbaatar Peljee, Director General of the National Counter-Terrorism Centre of Mongolia stressed that “rapid development of information technology is offering multiple opportunities worldwide. Nonetheless, its misuse by terrorists and other criminal groups is creating a new challenge. As of Mongolia, we expeditiously consider improving our cybersecurity system and consequently ensure the protection of critical infrastructure from terrorist cyber-attacks. For instance, President of Mongolia Mr. Khurelsukh Ukhnaa has expressed his full support for National Counter-Terrorism Council in combat against cyber terrorism.
He added that "in addition, a package of draft legislations such as Law on Cybersecurity, Law on Public Information, Law on Protection of Personal Information, Revised Law on Electronic Signature are scheduled to be discussed by the Mongolian Parliament this week."
"I am confident that this national workshop will raise awareness of the risks of potential cyber-terrorist attacks on our country's critical infrastructure and build a national preparedness system and immunity against cyber terrorism," he concluded.
The two-day workshop was part of the UNCCT Global Programme on Cybersecurity and New Technologies, implemented in close coordination with the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), United Kingdom’s Home Office and Mongolia’s National Counter-Terrorism Centre. It was attended by over 200 participants from Mongolia’s counter-terrorism and law enforcement agencies, relevant ministries in charge of critical sectors, cybersecurity organizations, owners of critical infrastructures from the financial, health, energy and other critical sectors and academia.
Organized at the request of the Government of Mongolia, the workshop contributed to raising Mongolia’s awareness of terrorist cyber-threats to national critical infrastructures. It also helped strengthen the skills and capacities of relevant government agencies, private sector actors and academia to conduct a national cyber-risk assessment and develop critical infrastructure protection frameworks. The workshop ended with a table-top exercise on responding to a terrorist ransomware attack against a critical infrastructure, which fostered inter-agency and public-private sector collaboration on cybersecurity.
The workshop was funded by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/158834-protecting-national-critical-infrastructure-terrorists-cyber-attacks-mongolia




Date: 02 November 2021
Title: UN Mongolia co-creates its new strategic cooperation framework for 2023-2027
Content: 02 November 2021
Today, the UN Mongolia and the Government of Mongolia invited all development partners to co-create their joint development vision and priorities for the next five years of strategic cooperation on sustainable development. This exercise will lay the foundation for the elaboration of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) from 2023 to 2027 for Mongolia.
The UNSDCF is a centerpiece of the UN development system reform initiated by the UN Secretary General in 2018. The Cooperation Framework will represent the UN development system’s collective offer, including of resident and non-resident UN agencies, to support Mongolia in addressing key priorities and gaps in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
In his opening remarks, Mr. Tapan Mishra emphasized that UN Mongolia’s new cooperation framework with Mongolia must be aligned with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Mongolia’s international obligations and as well as Mongolia’s development priorities through Vision 2050.
He further underscored that the new Cooperation Framework places an emphasis on “development cooperation” with the Government and partners rather than “development assistance”.
Mr. N. Ankhbayar, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, highlighted that this is a critical year as Mongolia celebrates the 60th anniversary of its membership to the United Nations and noted that Government welcomes the UN system reform and its new strategy for Mongolia that aims to deliver tangible development results for people of Mongolia.
Ms S.Suzanna, Head of the Development Policy and Planning Division of the National Development Agency noted that Mongolia is committed to sustainability and continuity of development policy and needs to improve coordination between different development-related policy documents that are in place in Mongolia. She further highlighted that more new and innovative financial mechanisms are essential to implement the development policies in Mongolia.
In order to create a common and shared vision for Mongolia, UN Mongolia is consulting with all partners, ranging from all sectors of the government to the private sector, civil society and academia. This collective vision will support the UN Mongolia’s strategic priorities for the next cooperation framework to put Mongolia on a sustainable, resilient, and inclusive path.
The UNSDCF visioning and prioritization workshop is being jointly organized in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Development Agency. The workshop will continue in the next 2 days until 4 November 2021.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/156421-un-mongolia-co-creates-its-new-strategic-cooperation-framework-2023-2027




Date: 20 October 2021
Title: UN Week – Joint celebration of the 60th anniversary of Mongolia’s accession to the United Nations
Content: 20 October 2021
2021 marks the 60th anniversary of Mongolia’s membership in the United Nations. This diamond jubilee of Mongolia’s full-fledged membership in the United Nations means its assurance of independence and sovereignty for Mongolia, strengthening its position in the international community.
To celebrate this special occasion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mongolia and the United Nations Country Team in Mongolia jointly launched the “UN Week” from 20 to 27 October to promote the significance of this historical milestone to the Mongolian public, as announced at a press conference held on 18 October at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
At the press conference, the UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia congratulated the people of Mongolia on the 60th anniversary of Mongolia’s joining the UN. He further underscored that partnerships between the UN and Mongolia that have matured into a strong and mutually beneficial partnership over the last six decades.
“We are happy that the UN has contributed to Mongolia in its socio-economic development, environmental protection, promotion of democracy and human rights,” he added. “The entire UN Mongolia Country Team is determined to support Mongolia to further accelerate its progress to sustainable and inclusive development through our stronger partnerships in the next 60 years.”
Today, the UN week was launched by a tree planting event at Mt Bayanzurkh, 15 km from Ulaanbaatar City. In his opening remarks, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. B. Munkhjin said: “Tree planting is considered as one of the most effective ways to restore degraded land and reverse desertification.”
At the tree planting event were the representatives from UN agencies in Mongolia, the Ministry of Environment and Tourism and the Environmental Department of the City Mayor’s Office, as well as senior diplomats.
This event becomes even more significant as it contributed to the pledge by the President of Mongolia who announced at his address at the UN’s General Assembly that he would mobilize a national tree planting movement to plant up to billion trees by 2030 in order to contribute to climate action.
The Programme for the “UN Week” 20 to 27 October:
10/20/2021 - Wednesday
“UN Week” Kick-Off: Tree Planting event
10:00 – 12:00*

Mt. Bayanzurkh (BZD)
10/21/2021
Thursday
“The historic process of joining the United Nations” Book launch
10:00 – 11:00

MFA
			Zuvshiltsul Hall

Photo Album Launch and Photo exhibition
15:00 - 16:00

MFA
			“Mutriin Tushee” Hall
10/22/2021
Friday
“Model UN” Closing
09:00 – 17:00

NUM Building 1 and Library

“Press Freedom” Book launch
			10:00 – 11:00
MFA
10/23/2021
Saturday
“Model UN” Closing

NUM
10/24/2021
Sunday
First episode airing of “Altan Argamj” 19:20 – 20:00

Mongolian National Broadcasting TV “Mongolian News” Channel
10/25/2021
Monday
Scientific & Research Conference
09:00 - 12:00

MFA (Zuwshiltsul Hall)
10/26/2021
Tuesday
Postal Stamp Launch
10:00 - 11:00

MFA (Nomin Hall)

Award ceremony for the winners of the Essay and Drawing Competition among children
15:00 – 16:00

MFA (101 Hall)
10/27/2021
Wednesday
Airing of a documentary
			to the public
20:30 – 21:00

MNB TV
			1st Channel
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/152313-un-week-%E2%80%93-joint-celebration-60th-anniversary-mongolia%E2%80%99s-accession-united-nations




Date: 04 October 2021
Title: Mongolia’s renewed commitment to accelerating the implementation of the SDGs
Content: 04 October 2021
First-ever high-level forum on SDGs in Mongolia
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have been put in the spotlight at the first-ever High-level National Forum on the SDGs on 4th October 2021 as Mongolia’s key stakeholders in the development, including the Parliamentarians, the Cabinet ministers, Diplomatic Missions, representatives from the civil society, development partners and the academia, and most importantly from the private sector, discussed the importance of integration of the SDGs in the national policies and programs and their implementation in Mongolia.
In his opening remarks, H.E Speaker of the Parliament G. Zandanshatar highlighted the importance of multilateral cooperation for the intensification of the SDGs in Mongolia while announcing that a Multistakeholder Council for Sustainable Development (MCSD) will be set up at the Parliament of Mongolia to ensure coordination and whole of society approach for SDGs implementation in Mongolia.
H.E. L.Oyun-Erdene, Prime Minister of Mongolia emphasized some of the key measures by the Government for the socio-economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic within a short period of time. He underscored the Government’s recent commitment to the Government budget for 2022 that included some reforms towards sustainable financing. For instance, the Government aims to support stronger a middle-income group of the population as a way to eradicate poverty and end hunger nationwide. Therefore, the development policies will be shifted from social welfare to the creation of employment opportunities for the people.
H.E. L.Oyun-Erdene, Prime Minister of Mongolia emphasized some of the key measures by the Government for the socio-economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic within a short period of time. He underscored the Government’s recent commitment to the Government budget for 2022 that included some reforms towards sustainable financing. For instance, the Government aims to support stronger middle-income group of population as a way to eradicate poverty and end hunger nationwide. Therefore, the development policies will be shifted from social welfare to the creation of employment opportunities for the people.
The UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra thanked Mongolia’s Government for their decisive actions and commitment to the SDGs in the midst of the fight against the devastating pandemic. “I am particularly pleased that the National Committee for Sustainable Development has recently adopted the national SDG targets and indicators and look forward towards the Parliament’s support in reviewing and adopting them during the upcoming sessions. Anchoring the nationalized SDG targets and indicators in the national development policies and programmes, supported by adequate financial resources and monitoring mechanism, is crucial for achieving the 2030 Agenda” said Tapan Mishra.
The keynote speech of the forum was delivered by UN Assistant Secretary-General for Economic Development, Chief Economist, UN-DESA Mr. Elliott Harris, who accentuated the effective recovery from the extreme impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic that has exacerbated the various forms of vulnerabilities and interdependence the world faces today.
“Governments can now formulate more ambitious policies aimed at reducing vulnerabilities an integral objective of the recovery plans,” said Mr. Harris. He further noted that the pandemic has underscored the importance of social protection, the need to buttress public health systems; and the accelerating digitalization of the economy. “It has shown that we need to put greater emphasis on improving the quality of investments in education, health, basic infrastructure and information and communications technologies, within the existing resources,” he added.
Among the esteemed panellists were the Deputy Speaker of Parliament S.Odontuya, MP J.Ganbaatar, MP B.Battumur and MP M. Oyunchimeg, who gave a broader overview on the legal frameworks on localizing SDGs in Mongolia and adoption of nationalized targets and indicators by the Parliament.
At the second panel discussion of the forum, the role of the private sector was highly emphasized, as noted the Member of Parliament J. Ganbaatar noted that the private sector that has good governance will be the driving forces for the acceleration of the agenda for sustainable development.
Acknowledging the fact that achieving the SDGs is everyone’s business, the UN Mongolia welcomed the Parliament’s leadership the acceleration of the SDGs through this important multi-stakeholder mechanism. It implies a new set of partnerships involving parliamentarians, national and local governments working with the private sector, academia, civil society and development partners, as emphasized by the Resident Coordinator.
At her closing remarks of the forum, Ms Kh.Bulgantuya, Member of Parliament and the Chair of the Sub-Committee on the SDGs announced the launch of the Multistakeholder Council for Sustainable Development (MCSD) to be an effective regulatory mechanism, which will serve as a platform for cohesive and coherent policy-making and implementation for achieving the 2030 Agenda and Vision 2050.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/149876-mongolia%E2%80%99s-renewed-commitment-accelerating-implementation-sdgs




Date: 03 September 2021
Title: President of Mongolia meets with UN Resident Coordinator
Content: 03 September 2021
Ulaanbaatar -- H.E U.Khurelsukh, President of Mongolia received UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia, Tapan Mishra at the Government Palace of Mongolia today.
Mr. Tapan Mishra congratulated him on his appointment as the President of Mongolia and expressed that the successful collaboration on Mongolia’s development priorities during his tenure as a Prime Minister would be continued throughout his time as a Head of State. He emphasized his leadership in localizing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), aligning them with the national development policies and priorities such as Vision 2050 during his premiership.
H.E U.Khurelsukh expressed his gratitude to the United Nations and its system in Mongolia for their long-standing partnerships with Mongolia through its various development programs that helped Mongolia on its development path. In particular, he highlighted the UN’s recent support to Mongolia in the timely response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
As a part of his agenda for youth development, the President of Mongolia initiated a scholarship program to support bright students from low-income and rural families to study in the world top universities, who would in return to contribute to the country’s development.
2021 marks the 60th anniversary of Mongolia’s membership in the United Nations. Mr. President noted the significant meaning of its membership in the United Nations for securing its independence and sovereignty and safeguarding its freedom and democracy.
The bilateral meeting between the President and the UN Resident Coordinator focused on larger development cooperation between the UN and Mongolia, addressing many of Mongolia’s challenges. They exchanged their views on a range of development issues from environmental concerns such as climate change, degrading ecosystem, as well as immense opportunities to tap into the potential of renewable energy, to socio-economic development issues, including more investment in youth development, improving health and education services for the population and to leveraging Mongolia’s possible contribution to the world peace and humanitarian affairs.
“There is a great opportunity for Mongolia, as it gradually shifts to the upper-middle-income country, to graduate from a humanitarian aid recipient to the contributor to the world humanitarian mission through its advantage of protein-rich food products,” highlighted Tapan Mishra.
Mr. President reiterated that Mongolia would become a regional player in peacebuilding and the global and regional humanitarian endeavours, including by leveraging the Buyant-Ukhaa International Airport.
“It’s time to invest more in the health and education of the humanities, helping the world’s most needy while investing in the planetary health instead of investing in wars and hostilities,” emphasized President U. Khurelsukh.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/142907-president-mongolia-meets-un-resident-coordinator




Date: 27 August 2021
Title: Preliminary results of youth-focused expenditure review presented at the National Youth Development Forum in Mongolia
Content: 27 August 2021
On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the establishment and development of youth organisations in Mongolia, the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, the Department of Family, Children and Youth Development, Youth Development Council and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) co-organised the National Youth Development Forum 2021.
The relevant ministries, government agencies and NGOs held discussions with youth representatives on various issues concerning youth including education, health, employment and social participation.
Acknowledging the tremendous power of youth for positive social change and catalysts for sustainable and inclusive development of Mongolia, UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra emphasized the importance of investing more in the young people for them to acquire better education, life skills and access to job markets.
At this forum, the UN Joint Programme “Rolling Out an Integrated Approach to SDGs Financing in Mongolia” presented the progress and preliminary results of the youth-focused expenditure review that is aimed to generate evidence-based information for promoting greater visibility of youth-related issues into the government budget and off-budget planning and strengthening the effectiveness of public resources for youth.
As of 2020, more than one million people (30.7%) represent the youth population aged 15-34. According to the preliminary results of the study, total amount of financing for youth population as a percentage of the state budget and of the GDP, have increased from 9.79% in 2017 to 10.59% in 2020, and from 3.15% to 3.95% during the same period, respectively. In 2020, the total amount of financing for youth amounted to approximately MNT 1.5 trillion constituting both government and other sources.
The alignment of budget with youth development programmes has improved in 2021 compared to the previous year, however, there is greater room to enhance alignment of financing with the national youth development priorities and more broadly with the SDGs.
The youth-focused expenditure review will serve as the foundation of piloting results-based budgeting, which is part of the broader initiative of UNDP that has been ongoing since 2018 to introduce results-based budgeting and better alignment of financing with the development priorities.
The consultant's report will be published later in 2021 for public dissemination
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/141919-preliminary-results-youth-focused-expenditure-review-presented-national-youth-development




Date: 25 August 2021
Title: “Монгол Улс ба НҮБ” гар зургийн болон зохион бичлэгийн уралдаан
Content: 25 August 2021
УДИРДАМЖ

Үндэсний эрх чөлөөгөө олж, тусгаар тогтнолоо мандуулсан дэлхийн олон улсын нэгэн адил Монгол Улс бие даасан байдлаа дэлхий дахинд тунхаглан зарлаж, бусад улс гүрнүүдээр хүлээн зөвшөөрүүлэхийн төлөө олон жилийн туршид шаргуу тэмцсэн түүхтэй. Бүгд Найрамдах Монгол Ард Улс (БНМАУ) Нэгдсэн Үндэстний Байгууллага (НҮБ)-д элсэхийн төлөө 1946 оноос 1961 оны хооронд нийт 5 удаа өргөдөл гаргаж, НҮБ-ын Аюулгүйн Зөвлөлийн 13 удаагийн хуралдаанаар хэлэлцүүлсэн.
Монгол Улс 1961 оны 10 дугаар сарын 27-нд НҮБ-д элссэнээр үе үеийн эрх орончдын хүсэл мөрөөдөл, тэмцэл биеллээ олсон билээ.
Монгол Улс НҮБ-д хууль ёсны эрхээ хүлээн зөвшөөрүүлж тус байгууллагын бүрэн эрхт гишүүн болсон нь туурга тусгаар улс гэдгээ дэлхийн түвшинд тунхаглан зарлах чухал ач холбогдолтой байлаа.
2021 онд Монгол Улс НҮБ-д элссэн түүхэн үйл явдлын 60 жилийн тэгш ой тохиож байгаатай холбогдуулан хүүхэд, залуучуудын дунд “Монгол Улс ба НҮБ” гар зургийн болон зохион бичлэгийн уралдааныг цахим хэлбэрээр зохион байгуулж байна.
           
ЗОРИЛГО
Үндэсний эрх чөлөө, тусгаар тогтнол, Монгол улс НҮБ-д элссэн түүхэн чухал үйл явдлын ач холбогдлыг хүүхэд, залуучуудад ойлгуулах, сурталчлан таниулахад  энэхүү уралдааны зорилго оршино.
СЭДЭВ
ХАМРАХ ХҮРЭЭ
БҮТЭЭЛД ТАВИГДАХ ШААРДЛАГА
Гар зургийн уралдаан
Зохион бичлэгийн уралдаан
ШАЛГАРУУЛАЛТ
Зохион бичлэг болон  гар зургийн  уралдаанд оролцох өсвөр үе, залуучуудын бүтээлүүдийг 2021 оны 9 дүгээр сарын 7-ны өдрийн 17:30 цаг хүртэл un60@unfpa.org.mn хаягаар бүртгэнэ. (Лавлах утас:99984729)
Уралдаанд ирүүлсэн бүтээлүүдийг уралдаан зохион байгуулах Комисст дүгнэж, шалгаруулна.
Уралдааны дүнг 2021 оны 9 дүгээр 17-ны өдөр зарлаж, шалгарсан бүтээлүүдийг Гадаад Харилцааны Яам (ГХЯ), Монгол Улсад суугаа НҮБ-ын Суурин зохицуулагчийн газар болон НҮБ-ын Хүн амын сангийн албаны цахим хуудас (http://www.mfa.gov.mn, mongolia.un.org, mongolia.unfpa.org)-аар олон нийтэд мэдээлнэ.
ХЭВЛЭН НИЙТЛЭХ
ШАГНАЛ
Гар зураг, зохион бичлэгийн уралдаанаас шалгарсан бүтээлүүдийн талаар теле/видео нэвтрүүлэг бэлтгэн баримтжуулж, бүтээлийг олон нийтийн сүлжээгээр цацна.
Гар зургийн уралдаан
1-р байр 1: Мөнгөн шагнал, НҮБ-ын Хүн амын сангийн нэрэмжит үнэ бүхий зүйл
2-р байр 1: Мөнгөн шагнал, НҮБ-ын Хүн амын сангийн нэрэмжит үнэ бүхий зүйл
3-р байр 1: Мөнгөн шагнал, НҮБ-ын Хүн амын сангийн нэрэмжит үнэ бүхий зүйл
Зохион бичлэгийн уралдаан насны ангилал тус бүрд
1-р байр 1: Мөнгөн шагнал, НҮБ-ын Хүн амын сангийн нэрэмжит үнэ бүхий зүйл
2-р байр 1: Мөнгөн шагнал, НҮБ-ын Хүн амын сангийн нэрэмжит үнэ бүхий зүйл
3-р байр 1: Мөнгөн шагнал, НҮБ-ын Хүн амын сангийн нэрэмжит үнэ бүхий зүйл
ЗОХИОН БАЙГУУЛАГЧ
МОНГОЛ УЛСЫН ГАДААД ХАРИЛЦААНЫ ЯАМ
МОНГОЛ УЛС ДАХЬ НҮБ-ЫН СУУРИН ЗОХИЦУУЛАГЧИЙН ГАЗАР
МОНГОЛ УЛС ДАХЬ НҮБ-ЫН ХҮН АМЫН САН
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/141514-%E2%80%9C%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%BD%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%BB-%D1%83%D0%BB%D1%81-%D0%B1%D0%B0-%D0%BD%D2%AF%D0%B1%E2%80%9D-%D0%B3%D0%B0%D1%80-%D0%B7%D1%83%D1%80%D0%B3%D0%B8%D0%B9%D0%BD-%D0%B1%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BD-%D0%B7%D0%BE%D1%85%D0%B8%D0%BE%D0%BD-%D0%B1%D0%B8%D1%87%D0%BB%D1%8D%D0%B3%D0%B8%D0%B9%D0%BD-%D1%83%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%B0%D0%BD




Date: 22 August 2021
Title: UN Mongolia paid tribute to humanitarian workers died in helicopter accident in 2001
Content: 22 August 2021
Malchin soum, Uvs aimag, 19 August 20, 2021 – World Humanitarian Day is a global celebration of people helping people. This day was designated in memory of 19 August 2003 the bomb attack on the Canal Hotel in Baghdad, Iraq, that killed 22 humanitarian aid workers, including the UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello. The UN reported 475 humanitarian aid workers were attacked, 108 were killed, 242 were wounded and 125 were hijacked in 2020 alone. This year’s theme for world humanitarian day highlights the human cost of the climate crisis.
On this special day, the UN Mongolia paid a tribute to the humanitarian workers who lost their precious lives in the helicopter crash during their dzud assessment mission in the Malchin soum, Uvs aimag on 14 January 2001. The UN Mongolia, together with the representatives from the National Emergency Management Agency, the local authorities and the family of B. Bayarmaa, UNFPA staff who were among the deceased, organised a memorial ceremony on the crash site in Malchin soum and celebrated the human sacrifice to the humanitarianism by the UN work in Mongolia.
Mongolia is susceptible to climate-related disasters including frequent dzuds, droughts, floods, wildfires and earthquakes.
In his opening remarks at the memorial ceremony, Mr. Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator, emphasised the importance of preventing any disasters if and where possible, and preparedness and swift recovery for any crisis. He called the people of Mongolia to take meaningful actions to reduce the negative impacts of the climate crisis on the most vulnerable people of the country.
Ms. Ishikawa, head of the office of the UNFPA Mongolia said that in any kind of disaster, women and girls are among the most affected. UN Mongolia will collectively continue raising awareness and advocating for the health, safety, and well-being of vulnerable populations, including women and girls, affected as we did during the current pandemic and natural disasters in Mongolia.
“We never want such a tragic accident again,” said Ch. Chimed, the Governor of Uvs aimag. “To not to repeat of losing precious lives of humanitarian workers who were to save lives of crisis-affected people, we must work together to ensure all necessary actions for prevention and preparedness for the climate disasters.”
At the memorial ceremony, a tribute of one-minute silence paid to the victims of the disastrous helicopter crash that took the lives of the Mongolian joint humanitarian assessment team including:
Ms. Speciose Hakizimana, Deputy Representative of UNICEF Mongolia, has participated in the commemoration to pay tribute to the memory of Mr. Matthew Girvin, UNICEF-Mongolia, said that we, as UN personnel, get inspired by their humane sacrifice of our colleagues to build better tomorrow for those whom we serve.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/141129-un-mongolia-paid-tribute-humanitarian-workers-died-helicopter-accident-2001




Date: 11 August 2021
Title: UN Mongolia Joint Statement on International Youth Day
Content: 11 August 2021
“Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health”
Ulaanbaatar -- In 1999, the UN General Assembly adopted a special resolution to announce August 12 as International Youth Day (IYD). Since then, we have been celebrating global Youth Day worldwide, and Mongolia even went further acclaiming August 25th as the Mongolian Youth Day. Every year, on these special days, we acknowledge and celebrate the vital role of young women and men as essential partners for a positive change and use it as a good chance to raise awareness of challenges and opportunities facing the youth.
The United Nations has been promoting youth empowerment, calling for greater investment in young people and sparking discussions on crucial issues related to their development. The Youth 2030, the broader UN Youth Strategy, protects the health and rights of young people and empowers them to shape their future and that of their country. Young people need to be healthy, educated and have control over their bodies and lives. In Mongolia, this is more relevant! Because one out of three people in Mongolia is considered as a young person and if we do not invest in them now, the future of Mongolia is at risk.
There are still existing gaps and unfinished business to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals in Mongolia, especially in ensuring youth participation in decision-making, investing in their empowerment, and offering quality education and decent employment opportunities. The gaps also include the need for opening doors to exercise their rights responsibly, guiding for being accountable for their responsibilities, and providing access to quality health services, including sexual and reproductive health. Undoubtedly, addressing these issues at the policy and implementation level will fulfil every young person’s potential, thus contribute significantly to meeting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development for people, the planet and prosperity.
The theme of International Youth Day 2021 is “Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health”, intending to highlight that without meaningful youth participation, the global effort to transform food systems will not be successful.
Food is more than what we eat. It has been and will remain the foundation of our culture, our economy, and our relationship with nature. Food systems are also critical to some of the big global questions we are trying to address including poverty, food security, pandemics, climate change, resource scarcity, economic growth, stability, etc. At the core of all these, to some extent, we have food systems related issues.  Today, like any other country in the world, COVID 19 pandemic has challenged the already fragile food systems and their impacts on people, the planet, and prosperity.
Mongolia has the potential to drive economic development, positive social change, environmental sustainability, and technological innovation by engaging and investing in the youth and harnessing the demographic dividends. The current generation of adolescents and youth will have transitioned into adulthood by 2030, and we wish to see healthy, educated, employed, confident, responsible and global citizens.
On this International Youth Day, we as United Nations urge the Government, civil society, private sector and everyone to invest in young people, increase investments in their education, health and their active engagement in inclusive and sustainable development in Mongolia! We call upon the youth for their active participation in transforming the food systems in Mongolia and globally.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/139675-un-mongolia-joint-statement-international-youth-day




Date: 27 July 2021
Title: Mongolia’s National Council on Disaster Risk Reduction convened
Content: 27 July 2021
Ulaanbaatar, 26 July 2021 – Chaired by Deputy Prime Minister H.E S. Amarsaikhan, Mongolia’s key stakeholders convened today to discuss the national action plan for prevention and preparedness for nature and man-made disasters at the Second Meeting of the National Council of the Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR).
Ulaanbaatar – Chaired by Deputy Prime Minister H.E S. Amarsaikhan, Mongolia’s key stakeholders convened today to discuss the national action plan for prevention and preparedness for natural and man-made disasters at the Second Meeting of the National Council of the Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR).
Key priority consultations were held around the following topics:
The UN Resident Coordinator, Tapan Mishra delivered opening remarks at the meeting. Mr. Mishra emphasized the importance of the prevention of any disasters, if and when possible, which would be the most important and useful step in disaster risk reduction. He highlighted, if not possible to prevent, we need to be well planned and enhance preparedness for all forms of possible disasters to mitigate further risks and ensure early recovery to reduce the impacts of disasters to a minimum.
Mongolia is prone to many types of disasters, including droughts, dzuds, floods, snow and sand blizzards, infectious diseases among humans and animals, earthquakes and soil erosions, etc. According to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mongolia has experienced a 67.9 per cent increase in weather and climate-related disasters and hazards in the last 15 years, and the death toll has increased by 37.5 per cent, reaching 248 in 2020 from 180 in 2005. In 2020 alone, fires accounted for 79.3 per cent of all disasters while 13.6 per cent were human-induced disasters.
Mongolia experienced more than 240 earthquakes of magnitude 3.5 or above have been recorded in the first half of 2021. For example, in January 2021, there were 8 times earthquakes of a magnitude of 4.6-6.5 in Khankh soum, Khuvsgul aimag.
In the last two years, Mongolia grappled with the COVID-19 pandemic, which has made an enormous impact on the public health and socio-economic situation of the country. Minister for Health, Mr. S. Enkhbold emphasized that the successful nationwide vaccination campaign has prevented a further surge in the death tolls of the COVID-19 patients. To date, Mongolia has recorded 157,986 cases of COVID-19 and 782 deaths.
The National Council on Disaster Risk Reduction has reviewed the activities related to disaster risk reduction, prevention and mitigation in the first half of 2021, and discussed further steps and actions to reduce the risks of weather-driven hazards such as flooding risk in the infrastructure sector. The council members discussed an opportunity to establish a Risk/Contingency Fund for disaster risk reduction in order to deal with the sudden onset disasters and also approved recommendations in the five areas discussed.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/137512-mongolia%E2%80%99s-national-council-disaster-risk-reduction-convened




Date: 08 July 2021
Title: National Dialogue on Sustainable Food Systems in Mongolia
Content: 08 July 2021
Mongolia’s key players in the food sector discussed how to make the national food system safer, stronger and more sustainable
The Government of Mongolia and the United Nations jointly convened a National Dialogue on Food Systems in Mongolia on 8 July 2021. Bringing together key players in the food systems in Mongolia, the Dialogue facilitated an open discussion on what it takes for Mongolia to sustainably transform its food systems that will accelerate progress towards achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Evidence, ideas, and commitments gained at the National Food Systems Dialogue in Mongolia will not only contribute to the Global Food Systems Summit to be convened by the UN Secretary-General in September 2021 but, most importantly, they will help Mongolia itself to unleash new actions and innovative solutions and strategies to rebuild the national food systems and leverage the shifts to deliver progress across all Sustainable Development Goals.
H.E Oyun-Erdene Luvsannamsrai, the Prime Minister of Mongolia, sincerely thanked the participants of the National Dialogue on Sustainable Food Systems in Mongolia and stated: “Issues related to the food and health systems need to be addressed comprehensively. Creating sustainable food systems will improve human development and quality of life and make a significant contribution to the country's sustainable social and economic development. Having established sustainable food systems, Mongolia will achieve its goal of becoming a food exporter. In addition to mining, Mongolia has identified agriculture, tourism, energy, transportation and logistics as priority sectors. Therefore, multi-stakeholder participation, including the private sector and civil society organizations, and cross-sectoral collaborations are crucial. The government will provide all the necessary support to promote such engagement and cooperation.”
“Mongolia has a significant potential to transition to sustainable food systems, that is already underway,” said UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra at the Dialogue.
“This would require technological innovation, strategic use of economic incentives, cohesive and participatory governance, and behavioural changes. Most importantly, these reforms must contribute to resilient livelihoods and healthy and nutritious diets of all Mongolian.”
If Mongolia is to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030, its food systems must change.
“We need to rapidly rethink how we produce, process, market and consume our food, and dispose of our waste. We should turn the COVID-19 crisis into the opportunity to rebalance and transform the food systems in Mongolia making them more inclusive, sustainable and resilient,” said FAO Representative in Mongolia Vinod Ahuja.
Leading up to this national dialogue, the food sector experts have convened six regional and thematic dialogues among specific groups such as the private sector, youth and civil society to hear their voices and concerns of all parties in the transformation of food systems.
These Food Systems Dialogues gave Mongolia an opportunity to address the current state of the food systems in the country, including challenges and opportunities and agree on actions and solutions to build a sustainable food system in the next 10 years and what can be done in the next 3-5 years.
The National Dialogue, therefore, discussed the following key thematic areas in the food systems:
Consolidated outcomes and policy recommendations from the pre-dialogue discussions by the experts and key players were presented to the high-level dialogue among the policy and decision-makers to stimulate further discussion for appropriate actions and solutions on the second day of the event.
The final outcomes of the National Dialogue on Food Systems will be presented at the UN Food Systems Summit in September by the Government of Mongolia.
To learn more about food systems, please visit: https://bit.ly/2T5RSUr&nbsp;
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/135082-national-dialogue-sustainable-food-systems-mongolia




Date: 02 July 2021
Title: United Nations Country Team Statement Concerning Child Jockeys
Content: 02 July 2021
The United Nations (UN) in Mongolia applauds the Government of Mongolia for its progressive efforts in the protection of children’s rights through investment in children, the enactment and enforcement of legislation and public policies and the establishment of institutions to safeguard children’s rights.
As a Member State of the United Nations that has ratified many of the core international human rights treaties, including the Convention on the Rights of the Child, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, Mongolia commits to adhering to internationally recognized principles and standards in protecting and promoting children’s rights. During two consecutive decades, Mongolia’s ratification of ILO Convention No. 182 assures that all children of Mongolia now have legal protection against the worst forms of child labour that may harm children’s safety, health or morals. These international standards have been reflected in domestic legislation in Mongolia, including the Law on the Rights of the Child (2016) and Law on Child Protection (2016) which prohibits violence and exploitation of children.
The UN Country Team in Mongolia has earlier issued a statement on 20 December 2019, which was sent along with letters to the President, Prime Minister and Parliament Speaker of Mongolia by the UN Resident Coordinator on 23 December 2019, based on the reports and observations UN human rights experts. The United Nations in Mongolia reiterates its position with its deep concern regarding the situation of child jockeys exposed to serious injuries and fatalities. Noting that horse racing is inherently dangerous to the health and safety of children, the UN Mongolia urges the Government to take, as a matter of urgency, the necessary measures in law and in practice to ensure that no child under 18 years of age is recruited as a horse jockey, at any time of the year.
The UN calls upon the Mongolian people and relevant stakeholders, including national and local governments, parents, guardians, horse owners and trainers, business enterprises, caregivers and the public, to respect Mongolia’s commitments under international human rights law. The UN in Mongolia remains committed to supporting progressive efforts by the Government of Mongolia, non-state actors, civil society organizations and individuals to safeguard their rights and to create a better world and future for all children of Mongolia.
UNITED NATIONS COUNTRY TEAM IN MONGOLIA
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/134277-united-nations-country-team-statement-concerning-child-jockeys




Date: 11 June 2021
Title: OPEN LETTER In observation of the World Day Against Child Labour – 12 June 2021
Content: 11 June 2021
What do you think when you say child labour? What do you see?
Do you see children doing house chores helping their parents at home? Do you see children working at construction sites, selling petty items or begging in the streets, washing cars, rearing animals, entertaining others or riding a racehorse for money?
Child labour creates an enormous risk to children’s health and safety and creates huge educational physical, psychological and social barriers to their development and their future opportunities for decent work and decent living. Child labour reinforces intergenerational poverty, threatens national policies and undercuts rights guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
According to ILO and UNICEF estimates in 2021, child labour rises to 160 million, the first increase in two decades. This accounts for 1 in 10 children worldwide. Among them,  almost half of them or 79 million children are in hazardous work.
In Mongolia, one out of six children is working, aged between 5 and 17.  Most of the children work in the agriculture sector, although hazardous work is common in construction and mining sectors for children 15-17 years old.  They can be found in the informal sector and doing domestic work. According to NSO (2012), an increase was observed among children aged 10-14 years engaged in economic activities, although the country made great progress in the 2000s, reducing the number of children in hazardous jobs by more than fourfold, and nine-fold among girls.
Mongolia has shown great commitment to the world to eliminate child labour by ratifying the ILO’s Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182) in 2001 and shared best practices to eliminate child labour by adopting a list of jobs prohibited for minors (2016), implementing the National Action Plan to Eliminate the Worst Forms of Child Labour (2012-2016), conducting child labour surveys (2006, 2009, 2012) to document evidence for policymaking, universal child money programme, the establishment of Children’s Fund (2021) and more.
This year’s World Day against Child Labour focuses on action taken for the 2021 International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour, declared by the UN General Assembly. It is the first World Day since the universal ratification of the ILO’s Convention No. 182 on the Worst Forms of Child Labour and takes place at a time when the COVID-19 crisis threatens to reverse years of progress in tackling the problem.
We, partners, are calling for actions to fight against child labour to make a difference.
We must fight with the root causes of child labour such as limited legal protection, poverty and social vulnerability, societal norms, exposure to shocks, poor quality schooling and limited access to school, limited decent work opportunities for parents and adults, difficult transition to work.
We must join our efforts to make sure that every child enjoys their childhood growing into an educated young person with skills and opportunities to enter the world of work.
We call for the public to raise awareness about the worst forms of child labour, hazardous work, minimum age restrictions and occupational safety and health issues.
We call for better social protection measures, improved living standards, effective fiscal policies, sharpening the data collection and evidence-based decision making as well as promoting changes in thinking.
We ask for the government, as well as businesses and individuals to join Alliance 8.7, the global partnership for eradicating forced labour modern slavery, human trafficking and child labour around the world, and make commitments.
Today is 2021. We have only four years left to achieve SDG Target 8.7 for ending child labour in all its forms.
We must act now: End child labour!
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/131019-open-letter-observation-world-day-against-child-labour-%E2%80%93-12-june-2021




Date: 08 June 2021
Title: Deputy Prime Minister of Mongolia and UN Resident Coordinator exchanged views on Integrated Coordination Group for COVID-19 response
Content: 08 June 2021
The ICG is intended to be a cross-sectoral platform where all stakeholders with the leadership of the Government, along with key Development Partners and the humanitarian organizations can discuss potential cooperation in Covid-19 responses impacts on health, humanitarian, and socio-economic needs and gaps.
Tapan Mishra congratulated the Government of Mongolia for successfully rolling out the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination campaign and for kindly offering the vaccines to foreign nationals in Mongolia. To date, Mongolia has vaccinated 80 per cent of all population aged above 18 years old.
He also raised his concerns over the increasing community transmission that has been once decreasing steadily and reiterated the importance of keeping the precautionary safety measures even after the successful vaccination programme. UN Resident Coordinator also highlighted the importance of implementing COVID-19 cautionary measures during the presidential election campaign.
Deputy Prime Minister also expressed his appreciation and gratitude to the UN and its agencies for their continued support to Mongolia in managing and containing the pandemic outbreak.
He also expressed concerns about the non-vaccinated population including the youth aged between 12-17 years old children is now considered as high-risk groups. The Government has now more choices of vaccines to offer to the youth and non-vaccinated population.
At the meeting, the parties agreed to hand over the management and regular updates of the comprehensive website covidmongolia.mn, initiated by the UN in Mongolia, that provides timely information and monitoring on the COVID-19 situation and its socio-economic impact on people and businesses to the Government of Mongolia and agreed to strengthen the efforts to provide real-time and accurate information about the pandemic and its toll to the public.
Both parties also agreed to enhance the efforts of the ICG, which is to consist of representatives of the international communities, embassies and development partners that aim to provide strategic and collective support to the Government in the COVID-19 pandemic management.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/130386-deputy-prime-minister-mongolia-and-un-resident-coordinator-exchanged-views-integrated




Date: 12 May 2021
Title: UN Committee on Enforced Disappearances publishes findings on Mongolia
Content: 12 May 2021
The Committee, however, was concerned about the narrow definition of enforced disappearances in the country, which only includes unlawful detention.
The Committee recommended that Mongolia take necessary legislative measures to bring the definition of "enforced disappearance" in line with the Convention. It also called on the State party to provide specific training on the provisions of the Convention to all law enforcement and security personnel - whether military or civil, government officials, judges, prosecutors and other people who may be involved in the custody or treatment of those deprived of their liberty.
The above findings officially named Concluding Observations, are now available online on the session webpage.

END
For more information and media requests in Geneva, please contact:
Vivian Kwok at +41 (0) 22 917 9362 / vkwok@ohchr.org or the UN Human Rights Office Media Section at +41 (0) 22 928 9855 / media@ohchr.org 

Background
The Committee on Enforced Disappearances monitors States parties’ adherence to the Convention for the Protection of all Persons from Enforced Disappearance. The Committee is made up of 10 members who are independent human rights experts drawn from around the world, who serve in their personal capacity and not as representatives of States parties.
Learn more with our animations on the Treaty Body system and on the Committee on Enforced Disappearances!
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/126741-un-committee-enforced-disappearances-publishes-findings-mongolia




Date: 10 May 2021
Title: Mongolian Peacekeepers honoured at the centenary ceremony by the Mongolian Armed Forces
Content: 10 May 2021
On this special celebration, the UN Peacekeeping was given a prominent acknowledgement and the UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra had the privilege to attend the ceremony to hand over the Medals of Honour to the Mongolian peacekeepers who served in the UN Peacekeeping Operations in the Republic of South Sudan and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Mongolia is among the first 24 nations that send troops to the UN’s Peacekeeping missions with the deployment of 18,144 peacekeepers to date, 732 of whom are female personnel, since 2002 when Mongolia sent its first two military observers to the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Currently, 1100 Mongolian peacekeepers are serving in the UN Peacekeeping Missions to provide security and peacebuilding support in the world’s hot conflict zones including the Republic of South Sudan, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Abyei province of the Republic of Sudan, Yemen, Western Sahara, and the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to the General Staff of the Mongolian Armed Forces.
In his congratulatory message, Major General D. Ganzorig, Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Mongolia highlighted that the Mongolian military personnel are gaining more international recognition thanks to their commitment to world peacebuilding with their professional qualifications and skills, as well as their dedication and courage.
Tapan Mishra, the UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia expressed his gratitude to the Mongolian Armed Forces on behalf of the UN Peacekeeping for their important contribution to establish peace and security in countries that are navigating the difficult path from conflict to peace.
On his congratulatory note, Mr. Mishra highlighted the invaluable sacrifice made by the Mongolian personnel while on their mission to pave the road to peace and security. He highlighted that the UN pays tribute to all the men and women who have served in United Nations peacekeeping operations on the occasion of the International Day of UN Peacekeepers.
On 27 May, a special virtual ceremony will be held at the UN Headquarters, at which the Dag Hammarskjold medal will be awarded posthumously to fallen peacekeepers including Junior Sergeant Ganbaatar Davaakhuu from Mongolia, who served in the UNMISS (UN Missions in South Sudan).
2021 also marks the 60th anniversary of Mongolia’s full-fledged membership in the UN. The UN in Mongolia jointly with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Armed Forces of Mongolia is organizing a number of outreach events in commemoration of this important jubilee, which will rightfully recognize Mongolia’s commitment and contribution to the UN Peacekeeping.


URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/126616-mongolian-peacekeepers-honoured-centenary-ceremony-mongolian-armed-forces




Date: 07 May 2021
Title: Development Bank of Mongolia to integrate sustainable financing into its operations
Content: 07 May 2021
Today, capacity building workshop was organised on the integration of sustainable financing principles into the DBM operations within the UN Joint Programme (JP), implemented with the Ministry of Finance under the sponsorship of the UN Joint SDG Fund.
The JP provided technical assistance to DBM to develop recommendations and action plan on the integration of sustainable financing principles into their operations. The draft lending policy and guidelines, risk assessment tools and templates have also been developed with the DBM cooperation, which will serve as the basis for introducing sustainability principles into their operations.
DBM has an important and unique role due to its size and importance in the Mongolian financial landscape. Therefore, DBM has the responsibility and the opportunity to create a positive impact with sustainable finance while reducing negative impacts by applying sustainability criteria in its lending activities. Enhancing DBM’s sustainability performance will further broaden the investor universe, increase access to liquidity and positively impact DBM’s reputation.
Ms. Munkhsukh N., CEO of DBM, expressed her commitment and support in developing DBM as a sustainable bank and continue cooperation in sustainable financing.
‘The integration of sustainable financing principles into the DBM operations has a significant role in shifting the weight of the overall financing landscape towards sustainability. Therefore, it will play a critical role in the implementation of the integrated national financing strategy for sustainable development over the coming years and facilitating Mongolia’s achievement of the SDGs’ said UNDP Resident Representative Elaine Conkievich in her opening remarks.
The consultants’ report will be published in June 2021 for public dissemination.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/126445-development-bank-mongolia-integrate-sustainable-financing-its-operations




Date: 28 April 2021
Title: An Integrated Coordination Group on the COVID-19 response kicked off in Mongolia
Content: 28 April 2021
The ICG was established to coordinate COVID-19 related efforts of multiple stakeholders across humanitarian, health and socio-economic dimensions to alleviate public health threats and prevents the COVID-19 outbreaks in Mongolia. Deputy Prime Minister S. Amarsaikhan and UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra are co-chairing the Group.
In his opening remarks, Mr. S. Amarsaikhan expressed sincere gratitude to the continued support from all development partners to Mongolia in the response to the COVID-19 pandemic on behalf of the Government of Mongolia.
Mr. Tapan Mishra said, “the ICG will provide support to the Government in defining a shared strategic vision for collective health, humanitarian and socio-economic initiatives in Mongolia to prevent, develop and implement the short and medium-term response plans.”
The ICG is intended to be a cross-sectoral platform where all stakeholders with the leadership of the Government, along with Development Partners and the Humanitarian Organizations can discuss potential cooperation in Covid-19 responses impacts on humanitarian, socio-economic and health needs and gaps. The Government can share its plans and actions and obtain feedback from the international, development and humanitarian community as a sounding board and also hear their ideas and suggestions based on global good practices in addressing the challenges together.
Deputy Prime Minister’s Office presented a list of priorities where the Government needs urgent support in containing the current pandemic and minimizing its further socio-economic and humanitarian impacts.
The group will also seek to support coordination of the integrated communication and information dissemination of COVID-19 response measures.
On the occasion of the first ICG meeting, the UN and the DPMO jointly launched  a comprehensive one-stop information platform (www.covidmongolia.mn) that provides real-time data and monitoring on the COVID-19 situation and its socio-economic impact on people and businesses.
This initiative was well welcomed by the participating organisations and some expressed their readiness and support to cooperate and coordinate all their efforts in better response to the current pandemic in Mongolia.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/125813-integrated-coordination-group-covid-19-response-kicked-mongolia




Date: 23 April 2021
Title: Deputy Prime Minister and UN Resident Coordinator held a virtual meeting
Content: 23 April 2021
H.E S. Amarsaikhan expressed his appreciation and on behalf of the Government of Mongolia for the continued support from the UN systems and international development partners to Mongolia in dealing with the current pandemic.
Mr. Mishra highlighted the integrated and coordinated approach by all partners to the current pandemic management. Both parties agreed to form an integrated coordination group including all relevant national and international partners in order to ensure more effective and efficient coordination for response to this challenging COVID-19 crisis.
“The UN is committed to the effective coordination of the health, humanitarian and socio-economic responses by the UN agencies along with other humanitarian and development partners in Mongolia,” to support the efforts of the government, said Mr. Mishra.
The main topic of discussion was around the UN’s initiative on the integrated platform for COVID-19 related information in Mongolia – www.covidmongolia.mn. The UN in Mongolia introduced the website, which could serve as One-Stop-Shop to all COVID-19 related information including health crisis and impacts on people and businesses in Mongolia.
The Deputy Prime Minister appreciated the availability of the platform with real-time and up-to-date comprehensive information.
“We are grateful to have this website, which will support the country to make well-informed decisions for an effective and efficient response to the current crisis,” said H.E. Mr. S. Amarsaikhan.
The website offers a range of timely information including the latest decisions and policy measures by the Government in response to the pandemic, monitoring of the changes in the major consumer prices and currency rates. It also features mobility indicators on Mongolians, especially residents in Ulaanbaatar who have well followed the Government directives to stay home during the strict lockdown measures. Moreover, comprehensive information on foreign aid and contributions of organizations and  individuals in better coping with the crisis is available on the website.
Both parties agreed to jointly launch the website soon and work together with all parties to ensure timely updates with real-time information.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/125548-deputy-prime-minister-and-un-resident-coordinator-held-virtual-meeting




Date: 14 April 2021
Title: UN explores opportunities to accelerate Mongolia’s digitalization agenda
Content: 14 April 2021
Today, the UN Mongolia held a virtual meeting with the CITA (Communications and Information Technology Authority) - Mongolia’s government agency to drive the digital transformation agenda.
“This is the start of a long journey to enhance our cooperation in the digital transformation of Mongolia,” said Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia.
The United Nations has developed a set of recommended actions for its member states to ensure its people benefit from the development in the digital era. The global agenda for digital cooperation is outlined in the UN Secretary-General roadmap that is calling to connect all people by 2030; respect human rights online, and protect the most vulnerable from the potential perils of digital advancement.
This has become one of the key priorities for the UN in Mongolia as the country also strives to become a digital nation.
At the meeting, we had an opportunity to learn the ambitious digitalization agenda by the Mongolian Government, presented by Ms Bolor-Erdene Battsengel, chairwoman of the CITA.
“Mongolia strives to be a digital nation,” said Ms B. Bolor-Erdene. “The Vision 2050 – Mongolia’s long-term development policy embedded digitalization in its all chapters.”
Mongolia sets six goals to become a digital nation. This will start with the infrastructure that connects its people throughout the country as COVID-19 revealed the weaknesses of its network connectivity. Strengthening digital governance will be on high priority to improve public service delivery to the citizens. The government offers more than 590 services, 330 of which are now available online.
Digital development will also be working to strengthen the cybersecurity system in Mongolia. Cybersecurity law is being developed to make the country stronger in the protection of its population data.
The Government’s goal is to improve the population’s digital literacy to tackle the digital divide and ensure no one is left behind. Currently, it identified four major segments that are likely to be left behind: people in remote areas, elderly people who often tend to be victims of digital and online fraud, people from poor and marginalized strata of society, including people with disabilities and less educated people. The agency sees the need to accelerate digital education to match the high demand for skills in the ICT sector in the future.
Lastly, Mongolia will pay attention to innovation and production of digital contents to better promote the country internationally and diversify the economy. For this, Mongolia will aim to accelerate digitalization in all sectors.
Ms B.Bolor-Erdene highlighted that there are many areas where Mongolia can cooperate and coordinate its efforts in order to achieve high efficiency in resource mobilization and experience sharing. Learning about the current engagement by the UN agencies in Mongolia in the ICT sector and the e-Mongolia initiative, Ms B.Bolor-Erdene noted the importance of better coordination with the donors.
Mr. Tapan Mishra reiterated that UN Mongolia stands ready to support Mongolia in accelerating its digitalization agenda, exploring cooperation avenues to ensure digital inclusion and digital capacity building for Mongolia.
The parties agreed to further engage to leverage technologies to advance Mongolia’s sustainable development.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/124798-un-explores-opportunities-accelerate-mongolia%E2%80%99s-digitalization-agenda




Date: 19 March 2021
Title: Minister of Foreign Affairs B.Battsetseg received UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra
Content: 19 March 2021
Both parties briefly exchanged views on the current socio-economic response to the COVID-19 pandemic by the Mongolian Government, where the Minister expressed her gratitude to the UN for its assistance to Mongolia in the containment of the spread of the virus and national vaccination program. The UN has been supporting Mongolia in its response and recovery from the current pandemic outbreak with appr. US$ 24.7 million in various formats collectively through the UN agencies in Mongolia.
Minister B. Battsetseg highlighted the timely measures by the Government on pandemic outbreak management, including repatriation of the Mongolians stranded abroad by increasing the number of charter flights and shortening the quarantine days for the returnees. She expressed her appreciation to the UN for the generous support of MNT 3.2 billion through the UN’s International Organization for Migration that enabled the repatriation of the vulnerable Mongolians abroad who needed urgent assistance. So far, Mongolia brought back more than 20,000 Mongolians and is working to bring more than 9000 Mongolians home.
At the meeting, the UN Resident Coordinator emphasized the need for strengthening cooperation on advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Mongolia, ensuring that they are aligned with the national development policies. He reiterated here the importance of establishing the multi-stakeholder platform for sustainable development that ensures engagement with all stakeholders including donors and development partners in Mongolia for accelerating the development of Mongolia through coherent policies and an integrated approach for implementation of SDGs.
Minister B. Battsetseg reiterated the Government’s support to the UN’s commitment to the implementation of the SDGs and informed that the spring session of the Parliament planned to discuss and adopt the nationalized SDGs indicators and targets.
Parties have exchanged views and plan on upcoming joint events, including the Food Systems dialogue and celebration of the 60th anniversary of Mongolia’s membership in the UN in 2021.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/122648-minister-foreign-affairs-bbattsetseg-received-un-resident-coordinator-tapan-mishra




Date: 12 March 2021
Title: Mongolia welcomes first batch of COVID-19 vaccines via COVAX Facility
Content: 12 March 2021
“In the battle against this global pandemic, countries around the world have launched the rollout of COVID-19 vaccination. The vaccination campaign in Mongolia started on 23 February 2021 and is accelerating further. We are happy to welcome the arrival of COVID-19 vaccines from the COVAX Facility. Vaccines provided by the COVAX Facility will help to immunize up to 20% of the population. It is a valuable contribution to reach the national vaccination target of 60% of the population in a short period of time,” highlighted Dr Enkhbold Sereejav, Minister of Health of Mongolia.
“Used together with public health measures like handwashing, mask wearing and physical distancing, COVID-19 vaccines are a critical new tool in our fight against the pandemic. This is the first batch of AstraZeneca vaccines delivered by the COVAX Facility backed by partners including WHO, CEPI and Gavi and UNICEF. It will help the Government to scale up the country’s immunization campaign to protect its people. It’s encouraging that Mongolia has already vaccinated over 67,000 people, including priority groups such as health workers. WHO has been supporting the country in its vaccine deployment preparation, and will continue closely working with the Government and partner organizations towards a safe recovery from this pandemic,” said Dr Sergey Diorditsa, WHO Representative to Mongolia.
“UNICEF applauds the Government of Mongolia for intensifying the recently launched COVID-19 immunization campaign. UNICEF will continue to support Mongolia in accessing vaccines via the COVAX Facility and purchasing WHO Emergency Use Listed vaccines through other channels so that the country can successfully implement its National vaccination and deployment plan. We are very grateful to many donors that contribute to COVAX, such as Australia, Canada, the European Union, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Controlling the pandemic will allow children to go back to kindergarten and school, to socialize with friends and to play sports without worries. This is important because they have fallen behind in their education and social development. We need to get them back on track as soon as possible. UNICEF will also continue to support the Government with upgrading the cold chain to ensure safe storage of all vaccines across the country,” said Alex Heikens, UNICEF Representative to Mongolia.
***
COVAX, the vaccines pillar of the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, is co-led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the World Health Organization (WHO) working in partnership with UNICEF as key implementing partner, as well as civil society organizations, vaccine manufacturers, the World Bank, and others.
For more information, please contact:
B.Uuganbayar, Communication Advisor, Ministry of Health, uuganbayar0312@gmail.com, 9111-8403
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/116082-mongolia-welcomes-first-batch-covid-19-vaccines-covax-facility




Date: 09 March 2021
Title: UN Resident Coordinator meets Minister for Education and Science of Mongolia
Content: 09 March 2021
During the meeting, Mr. Mishra had the opportunity to emphasize the need for accelerating sustainable development efforts to achieve SDGs by 2030. For this, he reiterated the importance of engaging with all stakeholders in the development of coherent and integrated policymaking and implementation of the SDGs. Such, he asserted the vital role of academia for evidence-based policy analysis and the integration of education for sustainable development in the educational curriculum.
Minister L. Enkh-Amgalan explained his short and long-term goals for the reform in the education sector of Mongolia. His short-term priority is to tackle education disparities and learning loss due to the disruption by COVID-19 in in-class education. He expressed his concerns that more than 170,000 children, which is about 24 per cent of all children in general education, are struggling with learning loss, especially among the children who lack enrollment to e-learning platforms due to limited access to electricity, electronic devices and the internet.
He introduced his 10-year plan to reform Mongolia’s education sector through legislative and policy revisions. For this, he expressed his appreciation for the education policy reviews done by UNESCO, which will serve as a basis for this ambitious reform within 2024-2034.
In his talks, the Minister highlighted the recent contribution by UNICEF, UNESCO and UNFPA on strengthening the e-learning platform to tackle challenges in remote learning for Mongolian children.
Mr. Mishra said: “Investment for the education of children is the best investment that will bring multiple benefits to the country.”
Both parties agreed on the importance of leveraging digitalization in the education sector to address the gaps in education at all levels, especially for children in rural areas where there are limited access and opportunities.
Lastly, Mr. Mishra had the opportunity to highlight the importance of improving nutrition and diversify food intakes for the children through school tea programmes that can benefit more from domestic food, milk and dairy production. Minister L.Enkh-Amgalan assured that the Government is planning to scale up the school tea programme to lunch programme which will start next year.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/115411-un-resident-coordinator-meets-minister-education-and-science-mongolia




Date: 09 March 2021
Title: UN Resident Coordinator meets Minister for Environment and Tourism
Content: 09 March 2021
The UN in Mongolia has been a long-term partner in the environment sector of Mongolia. At the meeting, Mr. Mishra had the opportunity to explain the UN development system reform aimed at better-integrated coordination of the UN system in the country.
He conveyed his interests to further strengthen the existing partnerships in the environment and tourism sector in Mongolia. He expressed his appreciation for Mongolia’s commitment to the reduction of greenhouse emission by 27.2 per cent and emphasized the importance of better and improved coordination among all stakeholders to achieve this ambitious goal.
The Minister for Environment and Tourism N. Urtnasan expressed her gratitude for the long-term support from the UN agencies in the environmental protection, sustainable consumption and rehabilitation for use of natural resources. She shared her vision to make Mongolia green by encouraging the Mongolian public to plant trees not only in Ulaanbaatar but also in all provinces. It would require strong commitment and participation from the public to care and nurture the trees, she assured.
Furthermore, she also highlighted the sectoral priorities including addressing water scarcity especially in Gobi region, forestation and revival of the tourism sector that has been hit hard by the pandemic. The tourism sector has suffered a loss of est. 1.5 trillion tugrics and more than 88,000 jobs are at risk.
In 2021, Mongolia received the green recovery fund for nature-based solutions for COVID-19 recovery and green jobs creation through ecological and cultural tourism, to be implemented by UNDP, UNIDO and ILO.
UN’s Resident Coordinator highlighted the UN’s support through the Partnership Action for Green Economy (PAGE) to implement energy subsidy study in Mongolia and prepare recommendations for a reform plan in the energy sector.
The UN system is implementing about 10 projects in the environment and tourism sector in Mongolia. Mr. Mishra mentioned that this week two UN agencies (UNDP and FAO) are expecting to sign the new projects on Land Degradation and Biodiversity funded by the Green Climate Fund (GCF) with the MET this week.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/115414-un-resident-coordinator-meets-minister-environment-and-tourism




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: Joint Statement of the UN in Mongolia on the occasion of International Women’s Day
Content: 08 March 2021
Women stand at the frontlines of the COVID-19 crisis in Mongolia. Women are healthcare workers and food producers, caregivers and teachers, social workers and civil servants.
In Mongolia, women make up 82 per cent of all healthcare workers who risk their health every day to care for those affected by the virus. Mothers across the country have also held the line and ensured that children are healthy, educated, and socialized amidst the crisis even as they faced their own challenges. On International Women’s Day 2021, the UN aims to celebrate the significant contributions made by women and girls during the pandemic with the theme “Women in Leadership: Achieving an Equal Future in a COVID-19 World”.
Yet, we must also acknowledge that women and girls continue to bear the brunt of the pandemic. While the strict measures put in place by the Government helped avoid widespread outbreaks and high death tolls, these same measures have worsened the already deep inequities that women and girls face, backtracking on years of progress made toward gender equality.
Women are more likely to work in sectors struggling the most during the pandemic, including micro, small and medium enterprises and the informal economy. Women are also more likely to drop out of the labour force during this crisis.
Herder women face greater constraints than men in accessing productive resources, services, technologies and financial assets despite the major role they play in food production and food security. These vulnerabilities are further compounded by the socioeconomic impacts of COVID-19.
Unpaid care work has increased exponentially due to school closures and lockdowns and the burden disproportionately falls on women and girls. This added responsibility interferes with their work, their education, and their self-care and personal development during an already challenging time.
Lockdowns and quarantines have made access to social and medical services far more difficult, especially for pregnant women and women with disabilities. Maternal mortality in Mongolia increased by 28 per cent during this period, with 22 per cent of these deaths linked to the disempowerment of women and pandemic-related concerns.
Gender-based violence – including domestic violence, violence against children, trafficking and sexual exploitation – spiked throughout the pandemic. For the first time in years, the country saw a 16 per cent increase in the number of serious cases of domestic violence, a statistic that had previously been steadily declining over time.
Throughout the world, we witnessed the power of women’s leadership in COVID-19 response and recovery. Countries led by women have shown great success in achieving lower transmission rates while protecting the socioeconomic wellbeing of their people. Experience has also shown that good governance, democracy, peace, and development all require inclusive leadership and representation to be effective and long-lasting.
However, stark gender imbalances remain in decision-making processes in the country. Women only hold 13 seats (17 per cent) in Parliament, and despite representing the majority of healthcare workers, only 3 of the 26 members (12 per cent) of the State Emergency Commission are women.
As the country responds to and recovers from the devastating effects of the pandemic, we are offered a valuable opportunity to bring about gender equality, especially for women’s leadership.
The UN calls on the government, the private sector, civil society and other institutions to act now to make gender equality and women’s empowerment a reality. We must dismantle the structural barriers and change the discriminatory norms that hinder women from fully participating in public life, in the economy, and in decision-making. At the same time, we must also ensure that critical and lifesaving support to women and girls is available and accessible to address the problems they face today in the context of the pandemic so that they are empowered to be active participants and drivers of Mongolia’s development.
We can achieve this by ensuring equal representation through special measures and quotas; by empowering women to take full part in the economy through equal access to the labour market and productive resources and opportunities; by creating a society where women and girls can live and work without fear of violence through funding, policies and political will to end all forms of gender-based violence in public and private spaces; and finally, by working at the grassroots level to change mindsets and social norms to espouse more gender equitable values.
Together, let us all build Mongolia forward better.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/115206-joint-statement-un-mongolia-occasion-international-women%E2%80%99s-day




Date: 26 February 2021
Title: Joint UN Statement on Human Rights in Times of COVID-19 pandemic in Mongolia
Content: 26 February 2021
The United Nations in Mongolia, the Government of Mongolia, civil society, the private sector and other key actors must join forces to deliver the human rights promise of the UN Charter and the Universal Declaration for Human Rights.
Globally, COVID-19 has profoundly affected the entire spectrum of human rights – from the right to life, an adequate standard of living, social protection, work and employment, and education, to protection from gender-based violence. It has exacerbated inequalities, poverty, food insecurity, discrimination and other human rights failures, with a disproportionate impact on those most marginalised. The global health crisis is itself a human rights crisis.
The COVID-19 has affected Mongolia in many ways. The spread of the virus exacerbated pre-existing issues such as overburdening the healthcare system and bringing poverty and hunger back on the rise. The lockdowns and COVID-19 prevention measures are having an impact with far-reaching consequences on the most fundamental rights and freedoms of the people in Mongolia, including thousands of people who lost their jobs and income and SMEs closing down. It particularly hit hard informal workers and their families, who also less benefited from the Government support. Many people, including those who were never considered at risk, are struggling to meet basic needs including adequate food and nutrition. Children were affected by school closures and many have struggled with the realities of remote learning and without tools to do so. Domestic violence against women and children has risen significantly and is another form of widespread concern that affects the well-being of many as they were locked down with their abusers.
People’s movements have been and are restricted and monitored through digital devices in efforts to contain the spread of the virus. Many Mongolians abroad could not return home due to border closures. People’s frustration and discontentment are increasingly voiced, leading to public outcry both online and offline. Stigma and discrimination, at times, hate speech are there against certain groups and individuals, including the COVID-19 patients and essential frontline workers. Media have expressed their concerns on restrictive measures aimed to curb infodemics which pose risks to freedom of expression and civic space. In order to combat COVID-19, the importance of universal access to accurate health and other information, in formats and through media accessible to all, is extremely important.
The UN in Mongolia is concerned that our hard-won gains in sustainable development will be lost. The UN Secretary-General’s Call to Action on Human Rights is a comprehensive framework to protect the gains we have managed to achieve as we strive to advance our most important work — from sustainable development to climate action, from protecting fundamental freedoms to gender equality, the preservation of civic space and ensuring that digital technology is a force for good.
Echoing the UN Secretary-General’s messages, the UN in Mongolia, therefore, call on the Government of Mongolia to take further action to protect and promote human rights and ensure they remain at the core of all work, including emergency measures and recovery efforts to build a better and more sustainable future for all Mongolians. By respecting human rights in this time of crisis, we will build more effective and inclusive solutions for on-going emergency of today and the recovery for tomorrow and the future. We stand ready to support Mongolia’s efforts to uphold human rights.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/113761-joint-un-statement-human-rights-times-covid-19-pandemic-mongolia




Date: 23 February 2021
Title: Mongolia successfully launches COVID-19 vaccination programme
Content: 23 February 2021
Joint Press Release on COVID-19 Vaccination Roll-out in Mongolia by the Government of Mongolia, United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office,  WHO and UNICEF
Ulaanbaatar -- Today marks a major milestone for Mongolia with the administration of its first batch of vaccine to prevent the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), beginning with the frontline health care workers at high risk. The government of Mongolia has received an initial 150000 doses of AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, produced by the Serum Institute of India, that has received Emergency Use Listing by the World Health Organization (WHO) and approval by Mongolia’s national regulatory authority. Following the arrival of further doses, other priority groups, including older people and those with health issues, which put them at higher risk for severe illness, will be vaccinated against the coronavirus.
The government of Mongolia has implemented a number of preventive measures to contain the local epicentres of COVID-19 and the spread of the virus. Following the first imported case reported in March 2020, the country has successfully contained the virus’ spread with no local transmissions until November 2020. When the pandemic spread amongst local communities, the Government has continued its efforts to minimize the pandemic’s impact.
The arrival of the first doses of vaccines brings hope, but other prevention measures must continue. Step-by-step vaccination of 60 per cent of the population will allow citizens, businesses and organizations to return to a normal lifestyle and to this extent, revitalize the economy and thereby provide jobs and increase income.
This time, by imposing the State of All-Out-Readiness in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolians were able to contain the outbreak, limit the spread of the disease, prepare for vaccination roll-out and build the basis for the implementation of the 10 trillion Comprehensive national plan to protect the public health and recover the economy.
Prime Minister L. Oyun-Erdene said:
“The State of All-Out-Readiness ends today and the curfew in the capital has been lifted. Citizens, businesses and organizations have returned to normal work and life. Twelve days, another example of how our nation can face adversity together, are behind us. I would like to express my gratitude to the residents and citizens of the Capital City, who respected and tolerated the Government's decision during the quarantine.
Within the framework of "One door - One test", 33 local epicentres of coronavirus and 122 cases were identified. In other words, the risk of onward transmission through these 122 people was eliminated and a comprehensive information base for each household was created.
I would like to emphasize that “One Door - One Test” is a baseline study for further developing a strategy of where we should go tomorrow, based on where we are now. My appreciation goes to all Government workers and employees, who have fulfilled their duties.”
Further, Prime Minister has noted that time to calm down is yet to come and urged everyone to adhere to the infection control regime. He also expressed his gratitude to the Government of India, World Health Organization, UN Resident Coordinator Office and UNICEF for their support in obtaining vaccines that meet international standards, as well as the Governments of Russia, China, the European Union, Republic of Korea and Japan.
The United Nations (UN) in Mongolia, with the leadership of WHO and UNICEF, is pleased to partner with the Government of Mongolia, in the successful facilitation of its national programme of vaccination against COVID-19. The UN in Mongolia thanks the people of Mongolia for their continued strong solidarity and cooperation with health authorities in implementing the prevention measures, including handwashing, mask-wearing and physical distancing, and complying with other restriction measures to minimize the spread of the virus.
“I want to congratulate the people of Mongolia for successfully rolling out the first COVID-19 vaccines. Ahead of us is the great challenge in ensuring “vaccines for all” is a reality. It is the UN’s conviction that fair and equitable access to vaccines, backed by well-planned and resourced supply chains, as well as distribution support, is not only the right thing to do, but the smart thing to do,” Tapan Mishra, UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia, said.
The global effort to develop and deploy safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines is truly unprecedented. WHO has been engaging with partners at all levels to ensure that countries, including Mongolia, are ready for the rapid deployment of vaccines, since no country is safe until people in all countries are protected. WHO supported the Government of Mongolia to prepare and submit to COVAX a sound National Vaccine Deployment Plan that demonstrates effective preparation and readiness including planning and coordination, training of healthcare workers and other front-line workers at national and sub-national level, prioritization of target populations, country cold chain capacity readiness and vaccine safety monitoring.
Congratulating the Government of Mongolia and the Minister of Health on successfully bringing the first doses of COVID-19 vaccine to the country, WHO Representative to Mongolia Dr Sergey Diorditsa said:
“Vaccines, in combination with other protective measures, are an important new tool in our fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. WHO will continue supporting the country to ensure successful and equitable deployment of COVID-19 vaccines by providing technical support, capacity building with health workers, providing necessary equipment and tools to strengthen safe storage and vaccination capacity, and engaging with health workers, frontline workers and communities to ensure that they are well-informed about COVID-19 vaccines and other important prevention measures.”
Globally, UNICEF is leading the procurement and supply of COVID-19 vaccines for 171 countries including Mongolia on behalf of the COVAX Facility – a partnership between WHO, Gavi the Vaccine Alliance, and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). At country level, UNICEF is supporting the Government of Mongolia to ensure the country is ready to introduce and deploy the vaccine. UNICEF is helping to upgrade Mongolia’s capacity to safely and securely store vaccines across the country, across the country, addressing misinformation, and building trust in safe and effective vaccines and in the health systems that deliver them.
UNICEF is giving top-priority to support the COVID-19 vaccination program because although only adults will be vaccinated, children will benefit tremendously: stopping the pandemic will allow children to go fully back to kindergarten, to school, to socialize with friends and to play sports as they have seriously fallen behind in their education and social development.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/113211-mongolia-successfully-launches-covid-19-vaccination-programme




Date: 10 December 2020
Title: Joint Statement of the UN Country Team in Mongolia on Human Rights Day 2020
Content: 10 December 2020

Human rights are at the heart of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as in the absence of human dignity we cannot hope to drive sustainable development. Human Rights are driven by progress on all 17 SDGs, and the SDGs are driven by advancements on human rights.
This year’s Human Rights Day theme relates to the COVID-19 pandemic and focuses on the need to build back better by ensuring Human Rights are central to recovery efforts. Today, women and men, girls and boys around the world are facing unprecedented challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic– for example, increased gender-based violence, decreased access to quality education, loss of jobs and income and loss of livelihoods. We will reach our common goals only if we are able to create equal opportunities for all, address the failures exposed and exploited by COVID-19, and apply human rights standards to tackle entrenched, systematic, and intergenerational inequalities, exclusion and discrimination.
10 December is an opportunity to reaffirm the importance of human rights in re-building the world we want, the need for global solidarity as well as our interconnectedness and shared humanity.
We commend Mongolia for its significant progress in advancing human rights. In particular, the abolition of the death penalty, and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity becoming a criminal offense. Legal guarantees have been established for the establishment of a national mechanism for the prevention of torture. The legislation focuses on gender equality, child rights, protection, youth development, the rights of persons with disabilities, and the elderly in compliance with UN conventions such as Convention on the Rights of the Child, Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Progress has also been made in ensuring the participation of citizens, adopting a number of practical norms, and drafting a law to protect human rights defenders.
Under UN Human Rights’ call to action “Stand Up for Human rights”, we aim to engage the general public, our partners and the UN family to bolster transformative action and showcase practical and inspirational examples that can contribute to recovering better and fostering more resilient and just societies.
It’s our sincere hope that Mongolia will set an example in the region by adopting the Law on Human Rights Defenders. In addition, there are still more to address the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms including right to life, freedom of expression and civic space in reality.
The COVID-19 pandemic is testing our unity, thus in order to “Recover Better”, we should all be proactive and “stand up” by accepting and mainstreaming human rights in our everyday actions. Discrimination, stigma, exclusion, and marginalization only make individuals as well as societies more fragile and vulnerable. We must not tolerate any form of discrimination, especially any stigma towards the COVID-19 patients. This is the time for us to stand in solidarity, and show kindness, care and support to one another, to our friends and neighbors. Let’s ensure that we create a new normal that to provide universal health coverage and social protection for all.
We also call upon the Government to place the fundamental human rights at the heart of its recovery endeavors from this devastating pandemic that left so many vulnerable. This is the time to appreciate the frontline fighters such as health, law enforcement, social protection, registration, custom and inspection personnel. Standing together in solidarity is our first step to recovering back better.
Let’s stand up together for human rights.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/104543-joint-statement-un-country-team-mongolia-human-rights-day-2020




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: JOINT STATEMENT of the United Nations in Mongolia on the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence
Content: 25 November 2020


When Mongolia conducted its first national gender-based violence survey in 2017, the results revealed that one in every two women experiences gender-based violence at least once in their lifetime, while one in every three had suffered violence in the year prior to the survey.  Moreover, the 2017 National Human Right Commission of Mongolia study revealed that women and young people often become the victims of violence and harassment at workplaces.
In the last five years, the Government of Mongolia, local and international NGOs, and United Nations agencies have all made great strides in not only establishing the mechanisms to support survivors of violence, but also in pushing social, political and economic development that could help prevent gender-based violence from happening altogether. However, as United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has stressed, the COVID-19 pandemic threatens to reverse decades of progress in the fight against violence and in achieving gender equality.
The proactive and decisive actions implemented by the Government of Mongolia has so far proven successful in preventing a large scale COVID-19 outbreak. However, the impacts of restrictive measures like the on-going nationwide lockdown on gender-based violence are visible and serious concerns. Similar to many other countries, Mongolia has not been spared from escalations of gender-based violence, especially domestic violence cases which increased by 30 per cent in the first half of 2020 compared to the first half of 2019. This is why, it is now more important than ever for people of different backgrounds and stakeholders across sectors to come together and say No More to gender-based violence at home, in the workplace, and in public spaces.
This year, UN Agencies, the diplomatic community, and the local and international civil society along with private sector companies is working together to call for action against the different forms of gender-based violence happening in the country – domestic violence; workplace and street harassment; sex trafficking; and violence against children, older persons, and persons with disabilities.
The national campaign’s 2020 theme is “No More: End Gender-based Violence at Home, in the Workplace, and in Public Spaces.” This theme highlights that gender-based violence can happen anywhere and to anyone as long as these harmful mindsets and behaviors remain, and it calls upon the public, the government, and civil society to act right now to ensure that no more women, girls and boys or men will have to suffer any form of gender-based violence.
The UN agencies in Mongolia remain committed to ending gender-based violence and promoting gender equality in the country, as articulated in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. As we mark the 25 years of adoption of Beijing Platform for Action, we call on the Mongolian public, as well as the government authority, decision makers and the international community to work together to help create a violence-free society where the rights of every person are respected and protected by all.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/102188-joint-statement-united-nations-mongolia-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence




Date: 11 November 2020
Title: Green Climate Fund invests $23.1million towards building the climate resilience of Mongolian herder communities
Content: 11 November 2020
Songdo – At the 27th meeting of its Board, the Green Climate Fund (GCF) yesterday approved a new US$23.1million grant towards strengthening the climate resilience of herder communities in Mongolia. Approximately 26,000 households (130,000 people), living across four of the country’s most remote and vulnerable Western and Eastern aimags (provinces) are set to benefit, with a further 160,000 households (800,000 people) to benefit indirectly – around one quarter of Mongolia’s national population.
The project brings together climate-informed natural resources management and sustainable livestock practices, building on traditional cooperative approaches among herders while also introducing innovative technologies for traceability of sustainably sourced livestock products.
It will enhance the generation and use of climate prognosis data in decision-making; rehabilitate degraded land and catchment areas; improve herders’ water and grazing land management practices; and strengthen herders’ access to markets for sustainably sourced livestock products. Crucially, it will also support the policy transformations needed to promote sustainable livestock and pasture management practices.
Mongolia is subject to a range of natural disasters, including harsh winters, drought, snow and dust storms. Climate change is multiplying the challenges: over the last decade, the magnitude and frequency of such disasters have increased several fold, with estimated economic costs around $10-15 million annually. The disasters take a heavy toll on livestock and rural livelihoods.
Increased temperatures, coupled with decreased precipitation, have resulted in a drying trend affecting pastures and water sources, and shifting natural zones – in turn impacting the natural resources on which herders and livestock rely.
COVID-19 has further exposed the vulnerability of the livestock sector to shocks, with the fluctuations in demand compounding existing challenges, and reinforcing the importance of green recovery and resilient growth.
“The impacts of climate change are a major concern in Mongolia, contributing to land degradation and desertification,” said Minister for Environment and Tourism, H.E. Ms. Sarangerel Davaajantsan. “With the grant from the Green Climate Fund, this project will contribute to a paradigm shift towards more climate-resilient sustainable development, particularly with focus on disaster risk reduction.”
“It will reap multiple benefits, including supporting vulnerable herder families’ livelihoods by offering more options but also improved access to markets in which they can sell their products – a significant socio-economic benefit. At the same time, it will also bring considerable long-term environmental benefits, including more resilient rehabilitated land and river basin areas, and improved conservation of water resources while strengthening disaster management and development planning to build forward Mongolia better.”
Developed over several years with the support from the United Nations Development Programme and in close consultation with the Government of Mongolia, communities, development partners and academia, the new 7-year project will be led by the Ministry of Environment and Tourism, with the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Light Industry as a key partner.
The project will also place a strong emphasis on the voices of female herders and female-headed households in decision-making, ensuring equal representation in training and community activities, and access and control over resources.
“As a trusted partner of the Government of Mongolia, UNDP is pleased to co-implement this transformative cross-sectoral project which comes at a critical time – a time in which the challenges of realizing SDGs have doubled due to the adverse impacts of COVID-19, especially, for marginalised and rural communities.” said Resident Representative for UNDP Mongolia, Elaine Conkievich.
“Taken together, the interventions will help to reduce volatility – and thus loss from climate shocks – help diversify households’ incomes, reduce pressure on rangelands resources, and promote responsible and fair usage of the limited resources.”
The project’s design links closely with Mongolia’s National Action Program on Climate Change, Vision 2050, and policies related to the livestock sector, as well as its Nationally Determined Contributions under the global Paris Agreement.
Implementation is expected to begin mid-2021. For more information, please visit the project page https://www.adaptation-undp.org/projects/improving-adaptive-capacity-and-risk-management-rural-communities-mongolia-0
About the United Nations Development Programme
UNDP is the leading United Nations organization fighting to end the injustice of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Working with our broad network of experts and partners in 170 countries, we help nations to build integrated, lasting solutions for people and planet.  www.undp.org
About the Green Climate Fund
The Green Climate Fund (GCF), the world’s largest fund dedicated to climate finance, supports developing countries to reduce their carbon emissions and strengthen their resilience to climate change. Set up by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 2010, GCF is an operating entity of the UNFCCC’s Financial Mechanism that also serves the Paris Agreement. GCF drives climate finance to where it is needed most: in the Least Developed Countries, Small Island Developing States, and African States.
Contacts
Erdenesukh Otgonbayar | Communications Officer, UNDP in Mongolia | Ph. +976-11-327585 (ext-1133) | +976-9909 6434 | E. erdenesukh.otgonbayar@undp.org
Bunchingiv Bazartseren | Environment Team Leader, UNDP Mongolia | E. bunchingiv.bazartseren@undp.org
Mariana Simões | Regional Technical Specialist, Climate Change Adaptation, UNDP | mariana.simoes@undp.org
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/100164-green-climate-fund-invests-231million-towards-building-climate-resilience-mongolian-herder




Date: 02 November 2020
Title: Mongolia’s human rights record to be examined by Universal Periodic Review
Content: 02 November 2020
Mongolia is one of the 14 States to be reviewed by the UPR Working Group during its upcoming session taking place from 2 to 13 November *.  Mongolia’s first and second UPR reviews took place in November 2010 and May 2015, respectively.
The documents on which the reviews are based are: 1) national report - information provided by the State under review; 2) information contained in the reports of independent human rights experts and groups, known as the Special Procedures, human rights treaty bodies, and other UN entities; 3) information provided by other stakeholders including national human rights institutions, regional organizations and civil society groups.
The three reports serving as the basis for the review of Mongolia on 4 November can be found here.
Location: Room 19, Palais des Nations, Geneva [NB: Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the meeting will be held using a combination of in-person and remote participation]
Time and date: 09.00 – 12.30, Wednesday, 4 November (Geneva time, GMT +1 hour)
The UPR is a unique process which involves a periodic review of the human rights records of all 193 UN Member States.  Since its first meeting was held in April 2008, all 193 UN member States have been reviewed twice within the first and second UPR cycles.  During the third UPR cycle, States are again expected to spell out steps they have taken to implement recommendations posed during their previous reviews which they committed to follow-up on, as well as to highlight recent human rights developments in the country.
The delegation of Mongolia will be headed by Barsuren Baasandorj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs.
The three-country representatives serving as rapporteurs (“troika”) for the review of Mongolia are: Austria, Eritrea and Peru.
The webcast of the session will be at http://webtv.un.org
The list of speakers and all available statements to be delivered during the review of Mongolia will be posted on the UPR Extranet [username:  hrc extranet (with space); password: 1session].
The UPR Working Group is scheduled to adopt the recommendations made to Mongolia at 17.00 on 6 November.  The State under review may wish to express its positions on recommendations posed to it during their review.
* The UPR 36th session was originally scheduled to be held from 4 to 15 May 2020, although was postponed due to COVID-19 measures.
ENDS
For more information and media requests, please contact Rolando Gómez at +41 (0) 22 917 9711, rgomez@ohchr.org
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/98613-mongolia%E2%80%99s-human-rights-record-be-examined-universal-periodic-review




Date: 22 October 2020
Title: UN Day and UN 75th anniversary celebration in Mongolia
Content: 22 October 2020
On 22 October, the UN Resident Coordinator Tapan Mishra welcomed H.E Ukhnaa Khurelsukh Prime Minister of Mongolia and dignitaries in Mongolia at an official ceremony held at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to commemorate this special day.
On his congratulatory speech at the event, H.E U.Khurelsukh, Prime Minister of Mongolia said:
"Today 11 agencies are resident in Mongolia representing their respective United Nations organizations, funds and programs. They have become our important development partners. I would like to thank the UN Country Team once again for their support and effective cooperation on all aspects, including poverty, human rights, governance, democracy, children, women, youth, people with disabilities and the environment.”
At his opening remarks, Mr. Mishra congratulated the Government of Mongolia’s strong leadership and support to the UN.
“Mongolia is an active member of the UN at the global stages and contributes more UN peacekeepers per capita than any other country in the world.”
Mongolia was one of the first countries who committed and mainstreamed Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into its national policy by adopting Mongolia’s long-term Policy (SDV-2030) which was developed based on the SDGs in 2016. The Vision-2050 which the Parliament recently approved replacing SDV was even comprehensive and beyond 2030.
While congratulating the Government of Mongolia on its important strides on advancing the SDGs in Mongolia, Mr. Mishra further stressed that there is much more that can and should be done to make sure Mongolia will prosper, the vulnerable receive the care and support they need, and no Mongolian is left behind.
Thus, throughout 2020, the UN is seeking to hear the voices of people from all walks of life worldwide for a brighter future. Joining this global conversation, the UN Mongolia listened to the voices of all segments of society in Mongolia through 12 consultative dialogues involving 470 people. In addition, more than 1400 people have responded to an online survey.
Mongolian people’s voices were loud and clear. Mongolians are concerned about the impacts of climate change in the Mongolian nomadic animal husbandry. People in vulnerable segments of society strive for equal and accessible social services and security for livelihoods. It was evident that Mongolians are forward-looking for better and more inclusive economic recovery and growth that provides decent jobs and better livelihoods for all.
As the world faces the unprecedented pandemic, the UN Mongolia developed a Socio-Economic Response Plan for COVID-19, which is one of the three critical components of our multilateral response – to save lives, protect people, and rebuild better – in keeping with the guidance of the UN Secretary-General.
The UN Mongolia Country Team committed “To deliver as One UN” our best support to Mongolia. As such, the UN Mongolia endeavours for more efficient and coordinated efforts of all UN agencies in tackling the impacts of the current global pandemic and support Mongolia recovery better from the Covid-19.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/96801-un-day-and-un-75th-anniversary-celebration-mongolia




Date: 07 October 2020
Title: United Nations and Government of Mongolia commence Joint Programme on integrated financing sustainable development in Mongolia
Content: 07 October 2020
Mongolia was among the first countries to adopt the UN Sustainable Development Goals, aligning with its development goals. By creating its own Sustainable Development Vision 2030, which was recently updated by Vision 2050, Mongolia has exemplified its commitment to advancing SDGs. Mongolia became one of the few countries who received funding from the Joint SDG fund initiated by the UN Secretary-General to accelerate the progress towards realizing SDGs by establishing an integrated national financing framework (INFF) in the country that aims at mobilizing all financial resources – private and public, international and domestic - under one framework. The Programme will be implemented by UNDP Mongolia and UNICEF in partnership with UNFPA Mongolia.
“Finance is not an end goal in itself. It is a means to improve people’s lives and achieve Sustainable Development Goals. Without resources, we cannot meet these goals,” UN Mongolia Resident Coordinator, Tapan Mishra said.
“In addition, the COVID-19 crisis brought additional economic and financial challenges. Economic recession and high debt risks have compounded the SDG financing challenges, threatening to derail the achievement of the SDGs by 2030.”
Mongolia like other countries around the world is facing unprecedented socio-economic challenges due to Covid-19, which not only increases the effort needed to achieve the SDGs but also to maintain the current progress.
“In the midst of the global pandemic, Ministry of Finance of Mongolia is working toward with special emphasis on protecting people’s livelihoods, keeping jobs, decreasing poverty, ensuring essential public service delivery and quality, and resolving public debt repayment without causing any negative impact on the macroeconomy. Therefore, we are pleased to see the commencement of the Joint Programme to further strengthen Mongolia’s development financing framework” said the Vice-Minister of Finance Ms. S. Mungunchimeg.
Mr. Mishra further highlighted that there is a need for stronger international cooperation and a fundamental shift in the international financial system to align it with sustainable development. At the same time, countries are recommended to adopt integrated frameworks to support and finance their national sustainable development strategies.
Introducing the Joint Programme, UNDP Mongolia’s Resident Representative Elaine Conkievich stated:
“The Joint Programme  will establish an integrated financing framework covering not only the Government budget but also extensively tapping into new underutilized financing opportunities, particularly the private sector, pulling in potential resources from both domestic and international sources into Mongolia’s development.”
Thus, the commencement of the Joint Programme is highly timely and it will play an integral role in development and adoption of the Integrated National Financing Framework, which will facilitate for the Government and its partners to align financial and development policies and mobilize all sources of financing to achieve the national SDGs. This is the first-of-its-kind initiative in developing a national financing framework in Mongolia that could be exemplary in the Asia-Pacific region and other countries.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/94718-united-nations-and-government-mongolia-commence-joint-programme-integrated-financing




Date: 22 July 2020
Title: UNFPA Mongolia will host a virtual meeting on safeguarding the rights of women and girls in the time of COVID-19
Content: 22 July 2020
Celebrating World Population Day and the launch of UNFPA’s 2020 State of World Population report, UNFPA Mongolia is holding a virtual meeting with government partners and civil society organizations to call attention to the rise of gender-based violence in Mongolia during the COVID-19 crisis.

Press release
22 July 2020

ULAANBAATAR, Mongolia – On the occasion of the World Population Day and the launch of UNFPA’s 2020 State of World Population report, UNFPA Mongolia is hosting virtual meeting with government partners and civil society organizations calls for end ending gender-based violence in Mongolia during the COVID-19 crisis. In addition to the opening remarks by UNFPA Mongolia’s Head of Office Kaori Ishikawa, the Minister of Labour and Social Protection Ariunzaya Ayush, the Director at the National Centre Against Violence Arvintaria Noldogjav will discuss the current situation of domestic violence in Mongolia and the actions taken by the Government of Mongolia and civil society organizations. .
Anyone who is interested in the virtual meeting to learn about how COVID-19 affects safety of women and girls in Mongolia is welcome to join. The meeting will be held in both English and Mongolian. Join the meeting on July 23 from 10:00 through 11:00 via the following link: https://unfpa.zoom.us/j/94352841520.
Every year in July, the UN and its member states celebrate the World Population Day. This year on the World Population Day, UNFPA is raising awareness on the vulnerabilities of women and girls during the COVID-19 pandemic, and highlights how country can safeguard hard-fought gains and ensure that women’s safety and health stays on the center of the development agenda.
Recent UNFPA research highlighted that if the lockdown continues for 6 months with major disruptions to health services, then 47 million women in low- and middle-income countries may not be able to access modern contraceptives resulting in 7 million unintended pregnancies. 31 million additional cases of gender-based violence can also be expected globally. The disruption of UNFPA’s programmes on the ground could result in 2 million cases of female genital mutilation and 13 million child marriages between 2020 and 2030 that could have been averted.
UNFPA’s annual flagship report, State of World Population 2020,  was launched on the 30th of June with the title of “Against my will: Defying the practices that harm women and girls and undermine equality.” This year’s report focuses on the prevalence and roots of harmful practices against women and girls, particularly gender-biased sex selection, child marriage, and female genital mutilation, and urges countries to end these practices.
For more information, please contact:
Juyoung Lee (English) at juylee@unfpa.org; +82-10-6618-3203
Ariunzul Gantulga (English and Mongolian) at gantulga@unfpa.org; +976-8071-0074
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/53841-unfpa-mongolia-will-host-virtual-meeting-safeguarding-rights-women-and-girls-time-covid-19




Date: 20 March 2020
Title: Message By United Nations Mongolia On The Occasion Of International Day Of Forest 2020
Content: 20 March 2020
Forests are one of the most vital ecosystems in our world covering one third of the Earth's land mass, performing vital functions around the world. Forests are also home to more than 80% of the terrestrial species of animals, plants and insects. Forests, their sustainable management and use of resources, including in fragile ecosystems, are key to combating climate change, and to contributing to the prosperity and well-being of current and future generations. Forests also play a crucial role in poverty alleviation and in the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Yet despite all of these priceless ecological, economic, social and health benefits, global deforestation continues at an alarming rate. The United Nations General Assembly proclaimed 21 March the International Day of Forests in 2012.Since then the Day celebrates and raises awareness of the importance of all types of forests. The theme for 2020 is “Forests and Biodiversity”.
With 13 million hectares of forest, Mongolia’s forest provides a significant contribution to the global ecosystem, home to number of threatened species including mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and an income source for nomadic herders and the rural population serving as a source of firewood, food and grazing land for livestock.
Recognizing the important role of forests in environmental and socio-economy development, the United Nations has a long history of partnership with the Government of Mongolia in combatting deforestation and supporting sustainable forest management. Forests are a key component of Mongolia’s Sustainable Development Vision and Green Development Policy as well as the National Programme on Biodiversity.   In the last 30 years, the Government has joined international efforts in saving forests, improved legal frameworks and adopted policies to protect forests. Behaviour-changing initiatives among the public have also been introduced such as celebrating National Tree Planting Day on the first weekends of May and October.
Despite all the efforts, forests in Mongolia as well as across the globe, face the threat of deforestation and degradation. The major factors behind this include forest fire, overgrazing, mining, improper management, poor enforcement of forest legislation, damage by pests and diseases and the ever-increasing climate change impacts. With rapid loss of forests and forest degradation, biodiversity is also under serious threat, leaving many ecosystems in danger of collapse. A report released in 2019 stresses the biodiversity extinction rate is both unprecedented in human history and rapidly rising, "with grave impacts on people around the world now likely."
Saving our forests is possible if we act NOW. But that should be a joint effort of scientists and policymakers, local people and NGOs working together towards a common goal. Sustainable forest management is key to addressing intertwined economic, environmental, and social challenges.
UN Mongolia is committed to promoting sustainable approaches to natural resource management, especially forest resources, and several projects and programs are being implemented jointly with the Government of Mongolia to meet Aichi Biodiversity targets under Convention on Biological Diversity. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), is collaborating closely with the Ministry of Environment to integrate sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation, carbon sink enhancement and co-implemented the REDD+ initiative on forest inventory, to introduce sustainable harvest management and to prevent further degradation through supporting reforestation in Mongolia.
Despite the efforts made, we still have much more to do. Forest and biodiversity is a whole ecosystem that we cannot afford to lose. With this message, the United Nations in Mongolia calls upon everyone to take action on protecting each tree and its living organism for the current and future generations.

URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/38678-message-united-nations-mongolia-occasion-international-day-forest-2020




Date: 19 March 2020
Title: COVID-19 Preparedness in Mongolia Supported by IOM Flow Monitoring Tool as Work with Member States Expands
Content: 19 March 2020
Ulaanbaatar – The International Organization for Migration (IOM) and municipal authorities in the Mongolian capital (pop: 1.4m) are tracking all incoming and outgoing vehicles and passengers, in support of the country’s COVID-19 prevention activities as cooperation with member states grows.
The Government of Mongolia has since mid-January stepped up measures to prevent an outbreak of COVID-19. Educational institutions have been closed and all public events were cancelled including the recent celebrations around the Mongolian Lunar New Year.
“IOM is pleased to have signed an Implementation Agreement with the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar and to use its extensive international experience to help with preparedness and response for COVID-19,” said Giuseppe Crocetti, IOM’s Chief of Mission for China and Mongolia.
In line with the COVID-19 Global Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan, and as part of the UN’s response in Mongolia, IOM is providing technical assistance to implement the Displacement Tracking Matrix (DTM) flow monitoring tool to track all the incoming and outgoing vehicles at six major checkpoints in the city. Piloted between 27 February and 3 March, it is now scheduled to last until 24 March.
Over 300 IOM-trained data enumerators are collecting information on the number and type of vehicles, number of people traveling and basic demographic characteristics, origin and destination of travel as well as length of stay.
The DTM has been extensively used globally for other health emergencies, but this is the first instance of the tool being applied specifically for COVID-19 preparedness and response.
Following the Government of Mongolia’s restrictions for both international and internal travel, the country’s first confirmed COVID-19 case was reported on 10 March.
IOM is also providing analytical support compiling daily Situation Reports and sharing them with all key municipal institutions that make up the Capital City Emergency Commission as well as with development partners’ community involved in COVID-19 preparedness and response in the country. The insights and conclusions from the reports assist preparedness efforts by identifying mobility pathways and trends so health officials can better plan their efforts.
Since January, and in line with WHO recommendations, IOM has been working with dozens of governments to help people on the move stay healthy. Earlier this month, a USD 17 million preparedness and response plan was launched.
In Asia, for example, IOM has started distributing hand sanitizer and tissues to US-bound migrants undergoing health checks at IOM centres and in February, critical medical supplies were donated to China to help protect frontline health care workers. The Organization is helping Member States with their cross-border coordination and establishing surveillance efforts at entry points (airports, sea ports and land border crossings), and leveraging its community networks to enhance risk communication activities and help ensure that information on how to remain healthy is communicated to the most vulnerable, including migrants, regardless of their status.
Although it is the first time the DTM has been used at such a scale in a capital city, it has been implemented in over 80 countries since 2004 and over 40 million individuals were tracked globally in 2018 alone. The Mongolia National Emergency Management Agency has used the DTM since 2018 to track the mobility of people in all administrative subdivision outside the capital to improve preparedness for natural disasters, especially dzud, a Mongolian phenomenon when the combination of extremely low temperatures and snow make it difficult for animals to survive.
“The municipality very much appreciates the data that DTM is offering to the City Emergency Commission which is helping us to better outline risk groups, regions with more intensive population movements, improve targeting of prevention activities, and strengthen overall preparedness and response,” said Amarsaikhan Sainbuyan, Mayor of Ulaanbaatar and Governor of the capital.
This DTM operation is funded by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) under the project “Understanding and Managing Internal Migration in Mongolia” (2019-2023).

URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/38524-covid-19-preparedness-mongolia-supported-iom-flow-monitoring-tool-work-member-states-expands




Date: 08 March 2020
Title: United Nations Mongolia Joint Statement on the Occasion of International Women's Day 2020
Content: 08 March 2020
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia – Women in Mongolia and across the world are entitled to live in dignity, in freedom and without discrimination. Gender equality, a human right, plays a crucial role in sustainable development, peace and security.
United Nations in Mongolia welcomes with appreciation the Government of Mongolia’s efforts to realize women’s rights progressively. Over the years we have witnessed several progresses to celebrate: policy and legal frameworks with respect to gender equality have been improved and enforced to eliminate gender-based discrimination and violence and to end sexual harassment at workplace. The United Nations also welcomes the country’s effort to revise labour legislation to align with international labour standards including equal pay for work of equal value, non-discrimination in work and occupation and prohibition of all types harassment and abuse at workplace. Mongolia is also one of 9 countries that successfully met targets to reduce Maternal Mortality by 2/3.
The International Women’s Day theme for 2020: “I am Generation Equality: Realizing Women's Rights.”  aims to bring together people of every gender, age, ethnicity, race, religion and country, to drive actions that will create the gender-equal world we all deserve. As the United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres said, “Only through the equal participation of women can we benefit from the intelligence, experience and insights of all of humanity. Women’s equal participation is vital to stability, helps prevent conflict, and promotes sustainable, inclusive development. Gender equality is the prerequisite for a better world,”
While the Government of Mongolia have taken significant steps towards gender equality, women in Mongolia are still underrepresented at policy-making level, suffer from gender-based violence and often lack the facilities and services such as alternative childcare, flexible working culture that enables equal participation in society.
On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Platform for Action, the United Nations in Mongolia calls upon the Government of Mongolia and other actors of the society to invest further in the great potential of the women to boost economic and social development of the country. We need to ensure women’s and girls’ equal representation by embedding gender parity in legal frameworks, strengthen implementation mechanisms in eliminating gender-based violence and changing individual behaviors through various interventions, create workplace and school culture that allow women’s equal participation, protect women defenders who are subject to risks and often targeted for gender-specific threats and gender-specific violence. Promoting policies for advancing gender equality and achieving justice by empowering rural women is also crucial in reducing growing gender imbalance in rural areas. More efforts then should be directed towards protecting migrant women because mobility is often associated with increased vulnerability and greater exposure to risks like human trafficking. Moreover, with adoption of ILO Violence and Harassment Convention, 2019 (No.190), the United Nations in Mongolia calls for the Government to ratify the convention and approve the revision of labour law to ensure that everyone has the right to a world of work free from violence and harassment.
The United Nations in Mongolia, through its designated agencies, commit to continue our support, together with our partners, to strengthen legal frameworks and institutions, to improve services for the needed, and to address the root causes of violence and human rights violations by challenging social norms and behaviors and tackling the wider gender inequalities. We renew our commitment to advancing gender equality and enhance women’s ability to participate and lead their lives without any fear or need and realize their dream in just, fair and safe society with the greatest capabilities.
*Mongolian statement attached via link above.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/37339-united-nations-mongolia-joint-statement-occasion-international-womens-day-2020




Date: 23 December 2019
Title: “Mongolia has a tremendous development potential” - Interview with UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia, Tapan Mishra
Content: 23 December 2019
We are very pleased to have you today. As you are meeting with our readers for the first time would you please tell us a little more about your background.
Thank you very much for inviting me. I am very pleased to greet your readers and wish them health, prosperity and happiness in the New Year.
As for me, I was born and grew up in Northern India and started my career in the private sector, in a petroleum company. I also worked for the public sector and academia in India. I joined the UN system in 2003 as the UNDP Learning Advisor and Deputy Chief of the Learning Resources Centre (LRC) in the Office of Human Resources, Bureau of Management. In 2007 I became the Director and Chief of LRC and worked there till 2013. Thereafter, I served on numerous assignments as Senior Advisor at the Business Solutions Exchange, supporting Country Offices as well as Offices in Headquarters including the Human Development Report Office, and the Bureau of Policy and Programme Support. In 2015 I was appointed the UN RC in North Korea and served there for over 4 years in a very uneasy geopolitical context, as you can imagine. Mongolia is a completely different story. I have made a work trip to Mongolia in 2017 and fell in love with your beautiful country and friendly people. I set a goal of coming back to Mongolia as UNRC and here I am, working and living in Mongolia – now into my fourth month. I’m happy, privileged and excited to be here, in the country of the enteral blue skies and tremendous development potential.
What is your impression of Mongolia and what’s your evaluation of its socio-economic and human development progress?
What really attracted me towards Mongolia is its obvious development potential. This includes its vast young population, with one in three people aged 15-34. Furthermore, education is traditionally revered, and 98 percent of Mongolia’s population is literate. Mongolia has a proud history and rich, unique culture that remains in-tact, despite globalisation. You have much natural wealth that if managed properly along with economic diversification, can make a very good living for just a little over three million of the Mongolian population. Moreover, Mongolia is a dynamic, multiparty democracy ensuring participation of the citizens in decision-making, respect for human rights, and freedom of speech. This fall, after a series of consultations with a wide range of social representatives, the Parliament of Mongolia passed critical amendments to the Constitution aiming at strengthening democracy, addressing separation of powers of the state and enhancing accountability of judicial systems and local governance.
As you know Mongolia joined the UN in 1961, and ever since, the UN’s goal has been supporting the country in implementation of its development goals. Now with the UN reform, under which the Office of the Resident Coordinator has expanded with more capacity and funding along with the UN resident coordinator becoming an independent and empowered representative of the UN Secretary General, the UN will render even more effective and needs-tailored assistance to Mongolia.  This recent UN reform has taken place after the member states mandated the UN to make bold steps to better assist the countries in implementation of the Global Agenda 2030. So now all of the 15 UN agencies represented in Mongolia will be working in a more efficient and coordinated way to help the country in achieving the SDGs – currently the primary focus of the UN assistance to member states.
The Mongolian Government has delivered its first Voluntary National Review (VNR) on SDGs implementation last July to the High Level Political Forum on SDGs. The UN has supported the government in producing this report.
Mongolia, and indeed the world, are now four years into carrying out the SDGs. These 17 goals represent a global promise to end poverty, reduce inequality and ensure that our planet can continue to sustain life by the year 2030. Aiming at poverty elimination, zero hunger, equality and fighting climate change, the SDGs are the most ambitious agenda in human history. Mongolia was an early adopter of the SDGs, including many of the goals within its own Sustainable Development Vision for 2030, just 5 months after the SDGs were adopted. Your country a was one of 47 nations to present its first VNR to the UN High Level Political Forum on the SDGs in July. As means of evaluating Mongolia’s progress in sustainable development to fellow UN member states, the VNR, led by the NDA, was developed with inputs from a wide range of stakeholders: government agencies, civil society and international partners. Last fall, Mongolia has finalized a large exercise on developing its own national targets and indicators, localizing global indicators and targets to measure the progress towards SDGs. Now the adoption of those by Parliament is pending.
What were the highlights of Mongolia’s VNR?
Mongolia’s VNR revealed the country has a sound foundation for ensuring future sustainable development. Mongolia’s economy has been recovering, with growth stabilizing at over 6%. This creates the right fiscal and investment conditions to support the SDGs. However, the benefits of renewed growth have not translated into better livelihood options and employment opportunities for all. With mining and agriculture still the main sources of revenue, Mongolia’s economic gains remain fragile and cyclical. Mining is susceptible to commodity price fluctuations, while agriculture is heavily dependent on environment. This dependence is compounded by the fact that climate change is already taking a toll in Mongolia. While the global safe threshold is 1.5 degrees Celsius, Mongolia’s temperatures have already jumped by 2.2 degrees over the last 75 years. The combined impact of climate change, mining and other factors related to human activities are damaging Mongolia’s rare ecosystems. With hotter summers and harsher winters, rural livelihoods, especially of herders – who make up one third of Mongolia’s population – are increasingly under strain. As a result, many have migrated to urban areas in recent years, mostly to Ulaanbaatar. This exacerbates its air and environmental pollution, as new migrants settle in ger areas around Ulaanbaatar, without central heating. According to the 2018 UNDP study, mortality attributed to indoor/ outdoor air pollution was as high as 155.9 deaths/100,000 people, placing Mongolia among the most high-impacted countries. Mitigating such challenges calls for prioritizing social and environmental spending, alongside focusing on economic growth, to ensure development is sustainable and includes everyone.
The report also mentions a number of social groups at risk of being left behind in development gains. Moreover, it mentions risks of reversing any gains unless the needs of these groups of people are met. Can you explain?
The VNR was guided by the principle of “Leaving No One Behind”, the key human-rights based principle behind the SDGs. Six population groups at-risk were identified through studies and focus group discussions. They are: children, people with disabilities, young people aged 15-24, herders, internal migrants living in urban ger areas, and the elderly. The VNR revealed they are at risk of not benefitting from development gains due to deepening inequality. To mention here the inequality was the highlight of the UNDP’s Human Development Report 2019 that was released this month as well. Although Mongolia remains in the high human development group inequality leads to loss in human development. Thus in Mongolia, this includes a loss of 13.1 percent in life expectancy at birth, 11.9 percent in education, and 15.7 in income inequality. These figures give a glimpse to the differential experiences of human development for those that are marginalized in Mongolia.
As of 2016 and through 2019, 1 in 3 Mongolians live in poverty, jumping from one in five in 2014, before it’s economic slowdown. This shows how quickly development gains can be reversed by economic shocks. Furthermore, the rate of poverty is uneven, highlighting disparities between regions, with nearly 35% of those in rural areas living in poverty, versus about 27% in urban areas. National unemployment is about 8% on average, yet unemployment among young people aged 18-24 is almost triple that, at over 22%. Furthermore, only 20% of persons with disabilities are employed. The male-female salary gap is 11.4%.  Additionally, while Mongolia is a representative democracy, only 13 out of 76 seats in Parliament are occupied by women.
As a response to these challenges, the VNR highlighted the need for improving Mongolia’s development policy and planning through policy integration, coherence, continuity and sustainability. About 200 policy documents were found to lack correlation and integration, in the course of preparing the VNR. Many also had little research and weak methodologies. It also stressed that it is important to link policies with financing, so they can actually be carried out. Finally, it found progress must be monitored and reported on effectively, so bottlenecks can be fixed as early as possible. This calls for prioritizing social and environmental spending, in addition to economic growth.
Frankly speaking, the SDGs still sound to be somewhat the government’s and international agencies’ agenda, too remote from the every day lives of ordinary citizens. How each one of us can participate?
The SDGs are the Global Agenda are for all people and the planet.  They cannot be met by government efforts alone. For one, the private sector is critical. 70% of the funds and innovations needed to meet the global goals for our world must come from companies. Every citizen also has a vital role to play. As Mongolians say “every drop of water helps make the sea”. The same applies for the Global Goals – no effort is too small.
Conscious choices count. The UN calls for an environmentally and socially responsible approach from everyone. For example, by using public transport, walking, or car-pooling, instead of driving your own car. By reducing, re-using and recycling, such as by choosing multi-use textile bags instead of single use plastic bags. We can also do more to use less energy and water, plant trees, reach out to the disadvantaged, support each other, speak out again violence, and stand up for human rights. We can play our part by spreading the call for positive action among our colleagues, friends and family.
Much like human rights, the SDGs are indivisible. We cannot meet one without the others – goal 5 on gender equality for instance, depends on goal 4, quality education for all, and vice versa. Thus, all 17 goals must be met – and given they cross so many different areas, from water management, to health, we need every sector, and every individual, to achieve this.
How are UN agencies in Mongolia supporting the country in its progress towards implementing the SDGs? What programmes and projects are being enacted?
The UN in Mongolia consists of 15 UN agencies working in different areas of development to help Mongolia implement the Global Agenda for 2030. This includes: protecting the environment, building democratic governance, ensuring food security, protecting maternal and child health, promoting decent jobs, as well as enabling stronger public services, such as healthcare, education, water and sanitation.
In 2017 and 2018, UN agencies mobilized USD 61.1 million, of which USD 43.23 million were used for 82 programmes across the country. There was a special focus on five SDGs in particular, that help catalyse the rest: goal 2-Zero Hunger, goal 3 – Health, goal 5 – Gender Equality, goal 15 – Life on Land and goal 16 – Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions.
We help include the SDGs within national development policies, plans, budgets and institutions. For example, we built an SDG-led budget process for the health sector, ensuring enough funding to improve medical access for every citizen, especially the most vulnerable. We also supported Mongolia’s civil service reform, to deliver a 21st-century public service, based on merit, that can deliver vital public services – from education, to water management – to all of Mongolia’s people.
Furthermore, we advise the Government and others on how SDG processes and principles can be adopted, to meet Mongolia’s Sustainable Development Vision 2030. We have also begun using a new UN online system to monitor real time progress in programming and operations, with a link to each of the 17 goals. The new UN web platform, UN Info, gives public access to progress in our programmes.
The UN Secretary-General convened an important Climate Action Summit in August in New York City and in December in Madrid. UN supported the Mongolian Government’s decision on banning usage of raw coal in Ulaanbaatar. With a global goal to achieve zero-net emissions by 2050, do you think Mongolia is acting boldly enough towards a low-carbon future?
Cutting carbon emissions is extremely important amid an escalating climate emergency, that has contributed to warming oceans and rising sea levels. From 1901 to 2010, the global average sea level rose by 19 cm, due to ice melting. Worldwide, direct economic losses from disasters including greater storms, floods and droughts are estimated at almost $3 trillion. Climate linked disasters claimed an estimated 1.3 million lives between 1998 and 2017. Rising temperatures could lead to global productivity losses equal to 80 million full-time jobs in the year 2030.
In Mongolia, one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, glaciers have melted by 40% since 1990. Over 600 lakes have dried up, while a quarter of the country has turned to desert. Like many other Asian nations, it also faces the added issue of air pollution, which is both a cause and effect of climate change, due to climate-induced migration to cities and the country’s coal-based economy.
According to UNICEF, the health costs of air pollution in Mongolia are extremely high, with 3.5-fold increase in foetal deaths in winter, as well as recurring lung infections and reduced lung function for children. Failure to reduce air pollution would lead to a rise in health costs for air pollution-induced diseases in children by 33% in the next 8 yrs. This will cost health providers an extra 4.8 billion MNT a year at least, by 2025 (UNICEF/NCPH). The World Bank estimates that across Mongolia, over 2,400 people died due to air pollution in 2013 –  a loss equal to 6.9% of the country’s GDP.
Unfortunately, worldwide investment in fossil fuels continues to exceed investments in renewables. So the UN is calling on governments to raise their nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement, and aim for zero-net emissions by 2050.
Mongolia remains a coal-based economy. However, the Government’s ban on burning row coal in the capital enacted in May is an important step towards a cleaner energy future. It is also essential to move from mitigation measures, to addressing the root causes of air-pollution, including an erosion of rural livelihoods due to climate change and economic inequalities. This calls for devising effective rural development policies, investing in social and environmental protection, and maintaining consistent policies on air pollution.
We believe that energy pricing should be reformed, to count health and environmental costs in the price of coal, to deter its use and divert more spending in insulation, particularly for those using on-grid heating. Currently, only those living in ger districts pay the full cost of coal. This simply increases poverty among the city’s poorest – who pay 7 times more than those with central heating – while failing to address air pollution caused by coal-fired central heating.
Mongolia must also encourage public and private funding into renewables.  With 270 sunny days a year and 10% of its territory estimated to lend itself to wind energy, Mongolia has strong potential to develop renewable energy, provided the right policies are in place to attract and support those investments.
What is the UN planning for the 2020?
The UN is launching a Decade of Action for the Sustainable Development Goals. Just 10 years are left for the world to achieve the SDGs. Given the current climate emergency there is no “Plan B” for the humankind. If we do not make sure we achieve the 17 Goals for the Planet and the People we will rob our future generations from living in the world free from hunger and deprivation. This is why the voices of the youth are becoming louder and stronger as they realize that they have to stand up for the world they will be living in. Hence the UN has been supporting youth in speaking out, thinking big and keeping up the pressure on the government to fulfil the commitments to the Global Agenda 2030.
Next year the UN will celebrate its 75th anniversary. I’m pleased to inform that Mongolia is among 25 other countries to pilot the UN75 public dialogue initiated by the UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres. We’ve launched the UN75 first dialogue last week, on 20 December, along with acknowledging the supporters of our very successful SDGs mobilization campaign in 2019. Our SDGs supporters, media and youth representatives have exchanged their thoughts about their vision of the world in the coming 25 years, the ways forward and how the UN can help the countries and the people on the way forward.
With the UN reform we are switching to a new cooperation framework to be signed with the member states. The UN Development Assistance Framework signed with Mongolia from 2017-2021 will be evaluated next year through the country cooperation assessment exercise and the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework will be elaborated to increase the efficiency of the UN assistance in supporting Mongolia in implementing SDGs.
On behalf of the United Nations I’d like to greet the people of Mongolia and the Mongolian government with the coming new year and the festive season. The UN stands ready to support Mongolia in its implementation of the SDGs tackling issues of inequality, including gender and income inequalities, gender based violence, children’s rights and access to quality health care, education and decent employment. We’ll stand with the people of Mongolia to create the country in which each person can live up to his or her potential and fulfil his or her aspirations. Happy New Year, Mongolia!
A.TULGA
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/30304-%E2%80%9Cmongolia-has-tremendous-development-potential%E2%80%9D-interview-un-resident-coordinator-mongolia




Date: 20 December 2019
Title: United Nations Country Team Statement Concerning Child Jockeys
Content: 20 December 2019
The United Nations (UN) in Mongolia welcomes the Government’s Resolution No.57 of 30 January 2019 and the Labour Minister’s Order No.A/36 of 8 February 2016 to ban engagement of children in winter and spring horse races and related activities. These are the progressive steps made by the Government of Mongolia to protect the rights of the child. The UN also appreciates the reassurance of Mongolia’s commitment to promote child development and protection communicated by the Speaker of the Parliament Mr. Zandanshatar Gombojav on the occation of the 30th Anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
The UN expresses its full trust in the Government’s oversight and the stakeholders’ due monitoring in implementing Government’s Resolution No.57 and Minister’s Order No.A/36.However, the UN is concerned that, the draft law on changes and amendments to the Law on National Festival, uploaded on www.parliament.mnfor public opinion and Parliament discussion, will violate the fundamental human rights of children employed and/or recruited as a jockey, if approved.
With the rise in business interest inhorse races, it can be inferred that the traditionaland cultural nature of the practice has been eroded. Instead it has become a highly commercialized activity that constituteschild labour and traffickingwhen children are recruited as jockeys. Researchers warn that,on average,two child jockeys die per year from accidents and many dozens of children sustain life-long injuries that result in disability[1].
As a UN Member State that has ratified many of the core international human rights treaties including  the Convention on the Rights of the Child, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,and  the International Labour Organization’s Convention on Worst Forms of Child Labour (No. 182), Mongolia has taken the commitment to adhere to internationally recognized principles and standards in protecting and promoting children’s rights.These international standards have been reflectedinto domestic legislation in Mongolia including the Law on the Rights of the Child (2016) and Law on Child Protection (2016) which prohibits violence and exploitation of children.
The Committee on the Rights of the Child (2017), the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (2015),Human Rights Committee (2017) as well as the ILO Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations (2015)has issued observations recallingthat “horse racing is inherently dangerous to the health and safety of children” and urged the Government of Mongoliato take the “necessary measures in law and in practice, to ensure that no child under 18 years of age is employed as a horse jockey”and“to take measures to eliminate child labour, including measures to prohibit the employment of children as jockeys.”
The UN calls on the Mongolian people and relevant stakeholders, including national and local governments, animal owners and trainers including that of horse and camel, parents, guardians, business enterprises, caregivers and the public, to respect Mongolia’s commitments under international human rights law.
The UN in Mongolia remains committed to working with the Government of Mongolia to protect the rights of every child.
UNITED NATIONS COUNTRY TEAM IN MONGOLIA
[1]https://www.trends.mn/n/6169
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/38653-united-nations-country-team-statement-concerning-child-jockeys




Date: 16 September 2019
Title: UN expert urges fresh Mongolia action on environment
Content: 16 September 2019
“Global warming is changing Mongolia’s climate more rapidly than that of many other countries,” warned Special Rapporteur on human rights and the environment, John H. Knox, saying the country’s world-famous nomadic herding culture was under threat from severe weather and the loss of land to mining and agriculture.
Mr. Knox praised the dedicated Mongolians working to protect the environment with exceptional commitment, and said the country already had a host of pertinent laws setting out strong environmental standards and safeguards.
But he called for urgent action to tackle air pollution, improve resources and properly assess a major new gold mining project which had the potential to cause major environmental damage. Existing laws should be fully deployed and an Environmental Ombudsman created to serve as a focal point for environmental information and complaints, he said.
Air pollution in the capital, Ulaanbaatar, did the “most obvious harm to human rights in Mongolia,” Mr. Knox noted in a statement marking the end of his mission.
“Most of this pollution is caused by burning coal in household stoves, although pollution from power plants and vehicles contributes to the problem,” he said.  “During the cold months in winter, Ulaanbaatar becomes one of the most polluted cities in the world.  A brown haze fills the sky and the air is infused with levels of particulates and other pollutants.”
Mining was also causing severe damage, he said, both by polluting rivers from which drinking water is drawn and by causing other environmental damage.
“Mining requires particular attention in Mongolia, because it is so important to the economy and because it can be so environmentally destructive,” Mr. Knox said.  “Mining standards should ensure that the mining is done safely, that it minimizes environmental harm, and that after the mining is completed, the site is restored as far as possible to its original status. Unavoidable harm should be offset and/or compensated.”
“When done correctly, this process can and should result in benefits not only for the country as a whole, but also for the local communities directly affected by the mining,” he added.
“Widespread illegal mining had to be tackled and environmental assessments carried out properly,” the Special Rapporteur said.
“I was told that impact assessments are often simply cut-and-pasted, so that an assessment of a mine in the Gobi, for example, addresses the impacts on forests found in northern Mongolia,” Mr. Knox observed, adding that local residents often learnt about projects only when the bulldozers moved in.
The new gold mining project, named Gold-2, would harm much of the remaining pasture land in the Zaamar district of Tov province, and cause far more environmental damage, but had been approved despite local opposition. “This is contrary to the relevant human rights obligations,” the Special Rapporteur noted. “To comply with those obligations, the Government should conduct a full-scale, detailed assessment of the proposal for Gold-2.”
Mr. Knox said the creation of the Environmental Ombudsman was his chief recommendation, but new laws on protecting human rights defenders and on public access to information were also needed.
He also urged a Government investigation into the death of conservation ranger Lkhagvasumberel (Sumbe) Tumursukh, whose death in 2015 was declared to be suicide even though he had suffered repeated attacks.  “This progression is all too typical of the untimely deaths of environmentalists around the world – threats, followed by violence, followed by murder,” Mr.  Knox observed.
During his mission, , from 19 to 27 September 2017, the Special Rapporteur met representatives of Government ministries, judges and Members of Parliament, international and regional organizations, members of civil society, and academics.
The Special Rapporteur will present a comprehensive report on the findings of his mission to the UN Human Rights Council in March 2018.

The UN Human Rights Council appointed Mr. John H. Knox in 2012 to serve as Independent Expert, and reappointed him in 2015 as Special Rapporteur on human rights obligations related to the enjoyment of a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment. The Council requested him, a professor of international law at Wake Forest University in the United States, to clarify the application of human rights norms to environmental protection, and to identify best practices in the use of human rights obligations in environmental policy-making.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
UN Human Rights, country page: Mongolia
For more information and media requests, please contact:
Mr. Jamshid Gaziyev (+41 79 109 6872 / jgaziyev@ohchr.org), Ms Mariyam Nawaz (mariyam.nawaz@one.un.org / +976 9542 1358) or Ms. Tsetsegmaa Amar (+976 11 327 585 ext 1104 / tsetsegmaa.amar@one.un.org)
Concerned about the world we live in? Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today. #Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/17402-un-expert-urges-fresh-mongolia-action-environment




Date: 23 August 2019
Title: Stakeholders to discuss progress on Mongolia’s Voluntary National Review 2019
Content: 23 August 2019
The National Development Agency (NDA) in cooperation with United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs and the United Nations in Mongolia will hold a National Consultation on the preparation for the Voluntary National Review (VNR) on the progress of the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Mongolia on 15 April, 2019.
The main objective of the National Consultation is to discuss the findings of the draft VNR report amongst multi-stakeholders. Central and local government representatives responsible for the implementation of the SDGs, delegates from non-governmental organizations, private sector and academia, international partners and and media associates will review the draft.
VNR is a part of the follow-up and review mechanisms of the implementation of the SDGs. The purpose of the VNR is to promote the monitoring of progress, the sharing of experiences and the acceleration of actions for implementation in policy-making and partnerships in multi-stake holder support. Mongolia volunteered to report on its SDGs progress during the UN High-Level Political Forum to be organized in New York in July 2019.
A high-level working group was thus established by the Prime Minister to prepare and complete Mongolia’s first VNR 2019. The report consists of two main sections. The first section provides a general overview of the implementation of the SDGs in Mongolia. The second part focuses on air pollution, one of the most critical social, health, environmental and economic challenge of Mongolia, to illustrate the nation’s progress and challenges on the road to SDGs.
The SDGs were adopted in September 2015 at the UN’s General Assembly by 193 UN Member States. These Global Goals aim at “transforming our world” through ensuring zero poverty, protecting the environment and eradicating inequality. The Global Goals are based on the principle of inclusiveness or “leaving no one behind”. The SDGs consist of 17 goals, 169 targets and 244 indicators. The Mongolian Parliament adopted Mongolia’s Sustainable Development Vision 2030 in 2016 as part of the country’s efforts towards implementing the SDGs.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/14382-stakeholders-discuss-progress-mongolia%E2%80%99s-voluntary-national-review-2019




Date: 13 May 2019
Title: Mongolia: UN expert warns against setbacks in rule of law and shrinking space for civil society
Content: 13 May 2019
Mongolia must ensure that reforms to its legal framework promote rather than restrict the work of human rights defenders, the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, Michel Forst, said today.
While Mongolia has often – and rightly so – been depicted as champion of democracy in East and Central Asia, recent legislative amendments are of concerns and are sending mixed messages, Mr. Forst said in a statement at the end of a two-week visit to the country.
“Having carefully considered the information received from the Government, civil society and other stakeholders, I conclude that, Mongolia is a relatively safe country for human rights defenders,” the UN expert said.  “Although some cases of attacks and abuses against human rights defenders were reported, I did not observe a pattern of systematic attacks against them”.
“However, this relatively safe environment does not translate into a conducive environment for human rights defenders. Obstacles such as stigma, the lack of understanding of who human rights defenders are, and dangerous amendments to several laws instil fear and hinder their work.”
The Special Rapporteur expressed concerns regarding amendments allowing political interference into the judiciary and public prosecution and reforms preventing administrative courts from overseeing Cabinet’s decisions. “These reforms may deter judges and prosecutors from taking action against corruption, and ultimately prevent people from speaking out against discrimination, or from calling for justice.”
“During the visit I heard about cases of intimidation, discrimination, harassment and stigmatization of human rights defenders, including LGBTI rights defenders and children rights defenders,” Mr. Forst said. “Environmentalists and investigative journalists who are working on corruption or environmental issues have also faced threats and pressure. Some have died in circumstances that are still to be properly investigated.”
“Defenders also mentioned more diffuse strategies of social or economic threats against their relatives - like difficulties to access jobs, scholarships and projects - or rumors that these kinds of reprisals might happen whenever they get more vocal on sensitive issues such as corruption or environmental protection. Given that the community in Mongolia is small and interconnected, these pressures create an environment of suspicion and fear which has a serious adverse deterrent impact on human rights defenders who would like to expose wrongdoings.”
The Special Rapporteur concluded that the adoption of a law on human rights defenders would be critical to promote and recognise the vital and legitimate work of human rights defenders, and to penalize and end impunity for attacks against defenders in a concrete way. He urged Mongolia to become the first country in the region to enact such a law.
Mr. Forst met the President of Mongolia, State officials and other authorities, members of the diplomatic corps and representatives from the private sector. He also heard the testimonies of more than 100 defenders in Ulaanbaatar, Airag and Sainshand/Zuunbayan.
The Special Rapporteur will present his final report and recommendations on the official visit to Mongolia to the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva in March 2020.
ENDS
Background: The UN has a very extensive and broad definition of human rights defenders, which has been enshrined in the Declaration on Human Rights Defenders, adopted by consensus 20 years ago, in December 1998. Human rights defenders are those who, individually or with others, act to promote or protect human rights, nationally and internationally, in a peaceful manner.
Mr. Michel Forst (France) was appointed by the Human Rights Council as the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders in 2014. Mr. Forst has extensive experience of human rights issues and specifically of the situation of human rights defenders. He was the Director General of Amnesty International (France) and Secretary General of the first World Summit on Human Rights Defenders in 1998. He is a former UN Independent Expert on the human rights situation in Haiti.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
For additional information, please contact: Thibaut Guillet (+41 22 917 9158 / +976 9440 9619 / tguillet@ohchr.org)
Concerned about the world we live in? Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today. #Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/14381-mongolia-un-expert-warns-against-setbacks-rule-law-and-shrinking-space-civil-society




Date: 30 April 2019
Title: UN expert to visit Mongolia to assess situation of human rights defenders
Content: 30 April 2019
“As the Government of Mongolia is considering a draft law to protect human rights defenders, my visit is particularly timely,” said the UN expert. “I look forward to fruitful discussions with executive representatives, as well as officials from the legislative and judicial branches.
“I will also meet with human rights defenders to understand the situation they face in Mongolia and to explore how my mandate can better support their work.”
Highlighting the recently adopted Human Rights Council’s resolutionwhich recognises the key role played by human rights defenders in the protection of the environment, the Special Rapporteur said that his visit would also allow him to look into the specific situation of environmental human rights defenders.
“During my visit, I intend to analyse how the government of Mongolia is ensuring that people and communities can safely promote and defend human rights and the environment,” said Forst. “This seems particularly important in a country where the population has historically always lived in harmony with nature, but is now facing rapid industrial growth, urbanisation, mining and other extractive activities that impact on their rights.”
During his two-week visit, at the invitation of the Government, the human rights expert will meet Government officials, human rights defenders and representatives of civil society, and the business sector, in Ulaanbaatar areas and Dornogovi aimag.
Forst will present his preliminary observations on the visit at a press conference on Monday 13 May 2019, at 11 am local time, in the UN Auditorium, UN House, UN Street-14, Sukhbaatar District, Ulaanbaatar. Access will be strictly limited to journalists.
The Special Rapporteur will present a comprehensive report of this visit to the UN Human Rights Council in March 2020.
ENDS
Mr. Michel Forst (France) was appointed by the Human Rights Council as the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders in 2014. Mr. Forst has extensive experience of human rights issues and specifically of the situation of human rights defenders. He was the Director General of Amnesty International (France) and Secretary General of the first World Summit on Human Rights Defenders in 1998. He is a former UN Independent Expert on the human rights situation in Haiti.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, Country Page: Mongolia
The Special Rapporteur is mandated to conduct official visits to States on their invitation. These visits provide an opportunity to examine in detail the role and situation of human rights defenders in the country, to identify particular problems and to make recommendations on how these could be resolved. By the nature of the mandate, the Special Rapporteur is required to look critically at the situation of human rights defenders in a country. Nevertheless, the process is intended to provide an independent and impartial assessment which will be of use to all actors in strengthening both the contribution of defenders to human rights and their protection.
Issues raised during such visits include: violations committed against human rights defenders; challenges to the “environment” within which defenders conduct their human rights work, including freedoms of association and expression, access to funding and the support to defenders provided by domestic legislation; and efforts undertaken by the authorities to protect human rights defenders from violations.
A few months after each visit, the Special Rapporteur issues a report on the visit indicating, among other things, main concerns and recommendations for action. The report is then formally presented by the Special Rapporteur at the Human Rights Council.
For additional information, please contact: Thibaut Guillet (+41 22 917 9158 / +41 22 79 752 0486 / tguillet@ohchr.org)
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/17392-un-expert-visit-mongolia-assess-situation-human-rights-defenders




Date: 02 April 2019
Title: Call for inputs on the upcoming country visit to Mongolia of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, Mr. Forst, 30 April – 13 May 2019
Content: 02 April 2019
Please feel free to provide inputs to any of the questions below. Please feel also free to share the questions with anyone who might be interested in contributing. Responses received will be kept confidential.
Human rights defenders, civil society and other interested parties are encouraged to submit general inputs and specific proposals with regard to:
Please send your inputs to defenders@ohchr.org as soon as possible but no later than 2 April 2019. If you reply after 13 May, your submission will not be considered during the visit, but it will be taken into account for the Special Rapporteur’s report to the Human Rights Council. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us at defenders@ohchr.org.

URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/17393-call-inputs-upcoming-country-visit-mongolia-special-rapporteur-situation-human-rights




Date: 16 December 2018
Title: UN Mongolia Statement on Air Pollution
Content: 16 December 2018
The UN in Mongolia shares people's concerns about the high levels of air pollution in Ulaanbaatar and other cities, which put lives at risk and particularly impact children, pregnant women, elderly and people with pre-existing health conditions. We welcome the public's initiative to make their voices heard through this petition.
Mongolia is among a growing number of countries facing this challenge. There are no quick fixes. It will take sustained, long-term public and private sector investments to resolve the causes of air pollution, as well as mitigate its impact on public health. This includes addressing the sources of air pollution and reducing emissions by providing amongst other things greater options for citizens to adopt clean energy, better insulation in homes (including gers) and reducing coal-based power. It also includes reducing exposure by improving indoor air quality, improving air quality monitoring, providing real-time advice on when to avoid being outside and - when absolutely necessary - to go out in well-fitted, filtering face masks.
The UN will continue to support the Mongolian government and society with technical advice on reducing exposure, strengthening health services, promoting energy efficiency and clean heating, as well as long term plans for renewable energy.
While the UN is a source of policy and methodology guidance, action and financing need to be driven by domestic partners, including the government. The business community, civil society and the public at large all have a role to play too, in ensuring that the right to a healthy and safe environment for every Mongolian is safeguarded.
The fight against air pollution is one of our highest priorities in Mongolia. The UN stands ready to work with all parties - from the government, to businesses and citizens - on developing further solutions together towards clean, safe air for all.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/17396-un-mongolia-statement-air-pollution




Date: 27 November 2018
Title: The Asia Pacific Regional Report on Food Safety and Nutrition points at stagnation in combating hunger and malnutrition in the Region
Content: 27 November 2018
The Asia and the Pacific Regional Overview of Food Security and Nutrition 2018, launched in Mongolia today, indicates an overall rise in the prevalence of hunger worldwide, returning to levels from a decade ago and points at stagnation in combating hunger and malnutrition in Asia and the Pacific.
The report published by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), World Food Programme (WFP) and the World Health Organization (WHO) and initially released on 2 November, highlights a number of converging challenges that threaten to undermine the Sustainable Development Goal to end all forms of malnutrition by 2030 (SDG 2) in Asia and the Pacific.
The Asia and Pacific region accounts for well over half of the world’s undernourished – nearly half a billion people (486 million). The region is home to more than half of the world’s malnourished children.  Malnutrition covers a broad spectrum and affects people of all ages – ranging from severe undernutrition to overweight and obesity – but children in particular, continue to bear the burden. In this region, 79 million children, or one child in every four below the age of five, suffers from stunting and 34 million children are wasting, 12 million of whom suffer from severe acute malnutrition with drastically increased risk of death. While some significant progress has been made towards a reduction of stunting, there has been little improvement in wasting during the past decade.
The multiple burden of malnutrition leads to a colossal human loss given the association between undernutrition and poor cognitive development, with severe lifelong consequences for the future of these children. This also results in economic losses to a nation’s economy due to missed opportunities of human potential. The report points out that, from a cost-benefit perspective, many nutrition interventions can result in a return of USD 16 for every dollar invested.
Incidences of climate-related disasters have been rising in the region. Natural disasters impact food security and nutrition through reduced food production, which can then cascade down to the entire food value chain, affecting livelihoods and causing economic and agricultural loss. Beyond the short term, disasters can impact the agriculture sector through loss of assets and rural infrastructure, and through increased disease outbreaks. FAO estimates that Asia suffered a staggering loss of USD 48 billion during 2005-2015. Countries need to adapt agriculture to become more resilient to climate related events and to mitigate the damage they can cause.
Limited or poor access to safe food and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) is another of the key drivers of malnutrition among children.
The report also highlights the almost paradoxical reality of an increase in obesity of both children and adults in the region. The region is now home to the fastest growing prevalence of childhood obesity in the world. An estimated 14.5 million children under five are overweight and virtually all children in the region are increasingly exposed to cheap, unhealthy processed foods high in salt, sugar and fat but poor in essential nutrients.
As migration from rural to urban areas continues apace, particularly involving poorer families, urban malnutrition is another challenge facing many countries. At the current rate of urbanization, by 2030, more than 55 percent of the Asian population will be living in cities and towns. While urbanization can bring economic opportunity, the growth is often not equitable and is associated with a concurrent prevalence of high and sustained undernutrition in children with rapidly rising rates of obesity in children and adults.
FACTS in Mongolia (source: Mongolia National Nutrition Survey IV and V)
·         Poverty rate is 29.6% (WB est.)
·         very poor vitamin D status with 90% of children under 5 years, 95% of pregnant women, and 82% of men having insufficient vitamin D levels. In all regions and socio-economic groups a high percentage of adults and children lack in vitamin D
·         the prevalence of vitamin A deficiency and insufficiency in children under 5 years was found to be elevated across country
·         27% of children 2-59 months and 21% of pregnant women anaemic and 21% of children 6-59 months and 30% of pregnant women iron deficient
·         overweight is high in all regions and population groups in Mongolia with 46% of women and 49% of men.
o   The prevalence of overweight increased most dramatically in school age children from 4.3% in the 2010 NNS IV to 28.6% in the NNS V with nearly 1 in 4 overweight children obese (6.4%) and over 1 in 3 school age children overweight in Ulaanbaatar (34%). Prevalence of overweight begins at young age with 12% of children under 5 years of age overweight
·         The prevalence of severe food insecurity in the population:
o   based on the Household Food Insecurity Access Scale (HFIAS): high household food insecurity in all regions with 65% of households having some level of food insecurity and 23% having severe food insecurity with hunger
§  food insecurity was highest in Khangai, with 80% of households classified as food insecure and 25% severely food insecure, and in Ulaanbaatar, with 68% of households food insecure and 27% severely food insecure
·         In the NNS V, stunted children had a significantly higher prevalence of overweight (20.5%) compared to children with normal height (11.0%).
·         Food insecurity is a leading cause of undernutrition globally, with the NNS V confirming the association between household food insecurity and poor nutrition status in Mongolian children. There was a significantly higher prevalence of child stunting, wasting, and low birth weight among children under 5 years of age living in food insecure households compared to food secure households.
·         In rural areas, 20% of the population lacks access to safe drinking water and one-third of the overall population lacks access to improved sanitation, both indicators highly associated with child malnutrition
·         Targeted food security and nutrition-focused social protection measures, such as the food stamp programme which was shown to be successful in reducing vulnerability of poor households to food shortages, should be reformed and strengthened to ensure the most vulnerable households.
·         Acting early transforms may be the way we manage disasters:
o   In Mongolia, the analysis, Return on Investment study, was conducted focused on two key FAO interventions – reducing herds in return for cash and distributing feed early when a localised dzud was forecast.
The study measured the ratio between the direct benefits of the early actions and cost of actions to implement on the ground. The result showed that  7.1 benefit to cost ratio.
URL: https://mongolia.un.org/en/14399-asia-pacific-regional-report-food-safety-and-nutrition-points-stagnation-combating-hunger-and




