Date: 06 June 2024
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on increasing conflict across Myanmar
Content: 06 June 2024
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
The Secretary-General is deeply concerned by the increasing violence across Myanmar and strongly condemns the recent attacks by the Myanmar military that have reportedly killed scores of civilians, including in Rakhine State and Sagaing Region. The latest incident targeting ethnic Rakhine in Western Myanmar, and the ongoing persecution of the Rohingya, underlines the need for protection of all communities. Indiscriminate aerial bombings and human rights violations continue to be reported in many parts of the country. Those responsible must be held to account.
The Secretary-General calls on all parties to the conflict to exercise maximum restraint, prioritize protection of civilians in accordance with international humanitarian law and prevent further incitement of communal tension and violence.
The Secretary-General is deeply concerned about the widening regional ramifications of the deteriorating situation in Myanmar and reiterates his appeal for a unified approach.
The Secretary-General urges Member States and all stakeholders to engage and support his Special Envoy, Julie Bishop, in her efforts to alleviate the suffering and help build an inclusive Myanmar-led process towards sustainable peace, including through close cooperation with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and neighbouring countries.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/270961-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-increasing-conflict-across-myanmar




Date: 24 May 2024
Title: Myanmar: Growing human rights crisis in Rakhine state
Content: 24 May 2024
FROM
Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights: Liz Throssell

LOCATION
Geneva
We are receiving frightening and disturbing reports from northern Rakhine State in Myanmar of the impacts of the conflict on civilian lives and property. Some of the most serious allegations concern incidents of killing of Rohingya civilians and the burning of their property.
Tens of thousands of civilians have been displaced in recent days by the fighting in Buthidaung and Maungdaw townships. Approximately 4,000* Rohingya have reportedly fled to an area on the Naf River near the border with Bangladesh, seeking protection. Over one million Rohingya are already in Bangladesh, having fled past purges. The High Commissioner calls on Bangladesh and other States to provide effective protection to those seeking it, in line with international law, and to ensure international solidarity with Bangladesh in hosting Rohingya refugees in Myanmar.
Testimonies, satellite images, and online videos and pictures indicate that Buthidaung town has been largely burned. We have received information indicating that the burning started on 17 May, two days after the military had retreated from the town and the Arakan Army claimed to have taken full control. Our Office is corroborating information received about who is responsible.
One survivor described seeing dozens of dead bodies as he fled the town. Another survivor said that he was among a group of displaced numbering in the tens of thousands, who were blocked by the Arakan Army, on the road west linking Buthidaung to Maungdaw town. Survivors recounted that the Arakan Army had abused them and extorted money from them as they made their way to Rohingya villages around 10 to 15 kilometres south of the town, where Rohingya already displaced by earlier attacks on villages had previously sought shelter. Rohingya in these areas have, for weeks, described sheltering with families they do not know, without enough food to feed their families.
In the weeks leading up to the burning of Buthidaung, the UN Human Rights Office has documented renewed attacks on Rohingya civilians by both the Arakan Army and military in northern Rakhine State. As well as aerial strikes, including by unmanned aerial vehicles, we have received reports of shooting at unarmed fleeing villagers, beheadings, disappearances, burnings of homes. For years, the military has targeted the Rohingya and actively enforced draconian and discriminatory restrictions affecting all aspects of their lives.
We see clear and present risks of a serious expansion of violence as the battle for neighbouring Maungdaw town has begun -- where the military maintains outposts and where a large Rohingya community lives, including hundreds of displaced Rohingya who moved to town from villages seeking safety. In this appalling situation, civilians are once more victimized, killed, their properties destroyed and looted, their demands for safety and security ignored, and they are again forced to flee their homes in a recurring nightmare of suffering.
The High Commissioner calls for an immediate end to the violence, and for all civilians to be protected without any distinction based on identity. Prompt and unhindered humanitarian relief must be allowed to flow, and all parties must comply fully and unconditionally with international law – including measures already ordered by the International Court of Justice, for the protection of Rohingya.

*This text was corrected on 27 May to say approximately 4,000, as there was an error in the previous version
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/269520-myanmar-growing-human-rights-crisis-rakhine-state




Date: 19 May 2024
Title: Comment by UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk on violence in Myanmar’s Rakhine State
Content: 19 May 2024
I am deeply alarmed by reports of renewed violence and property destruction in Buthidaung township in Myanmar’s northern Rakhine state, resulting in the displacement of potentially tens of thousands of civilians, mainly Rohingya.
With inter-communal tensions between ethnic Rakhine and Rohingya high – and being actively stoked by the military – this is a critical period when the risk of yet further atrocity crimes is particularly acute. While we seek to corroborate information indicating serious violations, I appeal directly to the Myanmar military and Arakan Army to pause the fighting, protect civilians, allow immediate and unhindered humanitarian access, and comply fully and unconditionally with international law – including the measures already ordered by the International Court of Justice for the protection of Rohingya.
I also appeal to Bangladesh to once again extend protection to vulnerable people seeking safety, and for the international community to provide all necessary support.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/269115-comment-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-volker-t%C3%BCrk-violence-myanmar%E2%80%99s-rakhine-state




Date: 03 May 2024
Title: Statement by the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i. for Myanmar
Content: 03 May 2024
MORE THAN 3 MILLION PEOPLE FORCED TO FLEE THEIR HOMES IN MYANMAR.
Myanmar has this week marked a bleak milestone with more than 3 million civilians now displaced nationwide amid intensifying conflict. The figure has jumped sharply, up by 50 per cent in just six months.
Myanmar stands at the precipice in 2024 with a deepening humanitarian crisis that has spiraled since the military takeover in February 2021 and the consequent conflicts in many parts of the country, driving record numbers of people to abandon their homes seeking safety. Of the 3 million people who are currently internally displaced, more than 2.7 million people fled as a result of conflict and insecurity since the takeover. It is estimated that one third of those now displaced are children whose education and futures have been upended by conflict.
Escalating flighting in many parts of the country, intensified since October 2023, has contributed to this rapid growth in displacement. Sadly, civilians not involved in the conflict pay the highest price across the country with many seeing no other option but to flee seeking safety. The 3 million displaced people are struggling to survive amid a widespread humanitarian crisis that has left a total of 18.6 million people in need. This is a million more than the previous year. Those in need include 6 million children.
Chin, Magway and Sagaing in north-western Myanmar continue to host the highest number of those displaced at nearly 1.5 million people, while Kayah, Bago, Kayin, Southern Shan, Mon and Tanintharyi in the south-east account for more than 900,000. Another 356,000 people are displaced in Rakhine. Access to internally displaced people (IDPs) in these parts of the country, as well as other states and regions that are hosting IDPs, is critical.
Already in 2024, humanitarians have reached nearly 950,000 people in need with humanitarian assistance, including almost half a million displaced people. But this is not enough. Gross underfunding is hampering response efforts, with less than 5 per cent of requirements received more than a quarter of the way into the year. With cyclone season fast approaching, additional resources are needed now to protect the most vulnerable and save lives.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/267754-statement-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-ai-myanmar




Date: 02 May 2024
Title: Statement on The Situation in Rakhine State
Content: 02 May 2024
**Myanmar
An update from Myanmar: Our team on the ground tells us they are concerned by the spreading of misinformation, disinformation and hate speech, especially in northern Rakhine State.
We fully support community leaders in Rakhine State, especially women, and youth, who are coming together and redoubling efforts to promote social cohesion amid increasing signs of tension and the risk of communal violence re-emerging in the current very volatile context.
Addressing the root causes of systemic discrimination and impunity in Rakhine State will be essential in establishing a sustainable pathway out of the current crisis facing Myanmar. The failure to do so will only fuel Myanmar’s vicious cycle of violence; that’s according to the UN team.
And we have of course being consistent in condemning all forms of violence against civilians in Myanmar, and we reiterate our call for the protection of civilians, including aid workers, in accordance with international humanitarian law, for the cessation of hostilities, and humanitarian access.
New York, 1 May 2024 / Yangon, 2 May 2024
###
The full transcript of noon briefing - https://press.un.org/en/2024/db240501.doc.htm
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/267589-statement-situation-rakhine-state




Date: 19 April 2024
Title: Myanmar: Türk sounds alarm amid rising tensions in Rakhine
Content: 19 April 2024
GENEVA – UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk today warned that intensified fighting in Rakhine State between the military and the Arakan Army, alongside tensions being fuelled between the Rohingya and ethnic Rakhine communities, pose a grave threat to the civilian population. He warned of a grave risk that past atrocities will be repeated.
Since the year-long informal ceasefire between the two sides broke down last November, 15 of Rakhine’s 17 townships have been affected by fighting, resulting in hundreds of deaths and injuries, and taking the number of displaced to well over 300,000.
“Rakhine State has once again become a battleground involving multiple actors, and civilians are paying a heavy price, with Rohingya at particular risk,” the High Commissioner said. “What is particularly disturbing is that whereas in 2017, the Rohingya were targeted by one group, they are now trapped between two armed factions who have a track record of killing them. We must not allow the Rohingya to be targeted again.”
The military has been fast losing ground to the Arakan Army (AA) throughout northern and central Rakhine. This has led to intensified fighting in the townships of Buthidaung and Maungdaw, ahead of an expected battle for the Rakhine State capital, Sittwe. The two townships are home to large Rohingya populations, putting them at grave risk.
“Facing defeat, the military has outrageously started to forcibly conscript, bribe and coerce Rohingya into joining their ranks. It is unconscionable that they should be targeted in this way, given the appalling events of six years ago, and the ongoing extreme discrimination against the Rohingya including the denial of citizenship,” Türk said.
Some reports say the military is forcing the Rohingya recruits or villagers to burn ethnic Rakhine homes, buildings or villages. Ethnic Rakhine villagers have allegedly responded in kind by burning Rohingya villages. The UN Human Rights Office is trying to verify all reports received, a task complicated by a communications blackout throughout the State.
Türk said disinformation and propaganda are also rife, pointing to claims that “Islamic terrorists” have taken Hindus and Buddhists hostage. “This was the same kind of hateful narrative that fuelled communal violence in 2012 and the horrendous attacks against the Rohingya in 2017,” he said.
Since the start of the year, the AA has positioned itself in and around Rohingya villages effectively inviting military attacks on Rohingya civilians.
On 15 April, the Médecins Sans Frontières office and pharmacy were torched in Buthidaung, along with some 200 homes. Hundreds have fled and are reported to be taking refuge in a high school, the grounds of the former hospital, and along roads in Buthidaung town. With both the Maungdaw and Buthidaung hospitals having been shut by the military in March and with the conflict intensifying, there is effectively no medical treatment in northern Rakhine.
“The alarm bells are ringing, and we must not allow there to be a repeat of the past,” Türk said. “Countries with influence on the Myanmar military and armed groups involved must act now to protect all civilians in Rakhine State and prevent another episode of horrendous persecution of the Rohingya.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/266460-myanmar-t%C3%BCrk-sounds-alarm-amid-rising-tensions-rakhine




Date: 05 April 2024
Title: Secretary-General appoints Ms. Julie Bishop of Australia as Special Envoy on Myanmar
Content: 05 April 2024
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres announced today the appointment of Julie Bishop of Australia as his Special Envoy on Myanmar.  Ms. Bishop succeeds Noeleen Heyzer of Singapore to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for her dedicated service.
Ms. Bishop brings extensive political, legal, management and senior leadership experience to the role.  She has held several high-level positions in the Australian Government, serving as Minister for Foreign Affairs (2013-2018), Cabinet Minister for Education, Science and Training, Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for Women’s Issues and Minister for Ageing.  She was a member of the Australian Parliament (1998-2019), following a 20-year legal career.
Throughout her career, Ms. Bishop has strengthened engagement with regional partners and led international negotiation efforts, including the first ever United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea conciliation.
Ms. Bishop is currently the Chancellor of the Australian National University.  She holds a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Adelaide, Australia.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/265428-secretary-general-appoints-ms-julie-bishop-australia-special-envoy-myanmar




Date: 18 March 2024
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 18 March 2024
The Secretary-General remains deeply concerned by the deteriorating situation and escalation of conflict in Myanmar.  He condemns all forms of violence and reiterates his call for the protection of civilians including aid workers in accordance with international humanitarian law, for the cessation of hostilities, and humanitarian access. The expansion of conflict in Rakhine State is driving displacement and exacerbating pre-existing vulnerabilities and discrimination. The Secretary-General calls on all parties to prevent further incitement of communal tensions. He is alarmed by reports of ongoing airstrikes by the military, including today in Minbya township that reportedly killed and injured many civilians. He is concerned by reports of forcible detention and recruitment of youths, including Rohingya, and the potential impact of forced conscription on human rights and on the social fabric of communities in Myanmar. The Secretary-General calls for sustained international and regional attention to the crisis in Myanmar, including through strengthening regional refugee protection efforts and responsibility sharing with countries hosting those fleeing persecution and violence. Addressing the root causes of systemic discrimination in Myanmar and seeking accountability for serious violations of international law will be central to any lasting solution to the crisis. The United Nations is committed to staying and delivering in Myanmar and to working with all stakeholders, including ASEAN and other regional actors, to attain sustainable peace.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/263689-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 13 March 2024
Title: Carl Skau: People of Myanmar need more from the international community as situation deteriorates
Content: 13 March 2024
The humanitarian situation in Myanmar is rapidly deteriorating. Conflict is intensifying and humanitarian access is increasingly restricted, while funding is falling short. More than 2.7 million people are displaced and one in every four is at risk of acute food insecurity.
During my visit, I have been profoundly impressed by the resilience of the people of Myanmar. Now is the time for the international community to come together to better support them.
While in the country, my plea was clear and urgent: humanitarian assistance must reach all people who need it - wherever they may be.
I also met with non-government and community-based organizations working at the frontlines to assist people. These organizations are resilient and capable but need humanitarian access and international support to continue to deliver in hard-to-reach areas.
WFP is staying and delivering in Myanmar, reaching over two million people. Our national staff are living in this crisis and responding to it at the same time. They, and WFP’s partners, need stronger international leadership that supports expanded assistance and advocacy for the people.
As I leave Myanmar, WFP’s commitment to the people and to our staff and partners in the field remains firm. We will continue to push for unimpeded humanitarian access, to draw attention to the significant and growing needs, and to lobby for more resources and stronger international and UN engagement for the people of Myanmar.
Note to the editor:
From 11-13 March, WFP’s Deputy Executive Director Carl Skau and Regional Director for Asia and the Pacific John Aylieff visited Myanmar to meet with WFP staff, partners, and stakeholders on how best to assist people in the face of growing conflict and food insecurity.
#                 #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/263346-carl-skau-people-myanmar-need-more-international-community-situation-deteriorates




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: It’s time to invest in women and girls for a safer, more gender-equal Myanmar.
Content: 08 March 2024
As the world marks International Women’s Day, women across Myanmar continue to stand up for the rights and wellbeing of women and girls in all aspects of life. Amid challenging circumstances, women and women-led organizations play a leading role in working toward gender equality and providing lifesaving support to vulnerable and marginalized people. Yet their efforts are often under-recognized, and drastically underfunded.
On this day, the United Nations (UN) in Myanmar honors and stands in solidarity with women and girls across Myanmar as they continue to demonstrate their leadership and participate in the destiny of their country. We also rally behind the 2024 UN theme for International Women’s Day – “Invest in women: Accelerate progress” – in calling for more investment to support Myanmar women and girls to live free from violence and have equal access to education and employment.
The COVID-19 pandemic, military takeover, and extreme weather events such as Cyclone Mocha, have left Myanmar facing an ongoing political, economic, humanitarian, and human rights crisis. The poverty rate has doubled since 2021, almost 13 million people are food insecure, and 2.6 million people are internally displaced.[1] Women, girls, people with disabilities and internally displaced people are among those most marginalized. They bear the greatest burden of poverty and insecurity because crisis perpetuates gender disparities and increases women’s and girl’s vulnerability to trafficking, gender-based violence (GBV) and forced early marriage.
Gender equality and women's rights are fundamental to Myanmar’s path within the Sustainable Development Agenda. Yet quite the opposite is taking place. We are witnessing a backslide on gender equality and a regression in women’s and girl’s rights, including their right to education, employment and to live a life without violence.
International Women’s Day is a time to bring renewed attention to the challenges facing women and girls in Myanmar. It is also a time to recognize and champion their bold and brave leadership and resilience. Women and women-led businesses and organizations in Myanmar have a long history of taking a leading role in spurring economic development, providing aid and services, and advocating for the respect of human rights and gender equality.
They have continued this work despite the high costs they have incurred, including individual women leaders and women’s organizations finding themselves under-resourced, facing excessive workloads and burnout, and enduring threats and violence on and offline.
With a staggering 9.7 million women and girls in humanitarian need in Myanmar,[2] women’s civil society organizations are critical to the response. They serve populations in need in remote and often hard to reach areas, relying on their knowledge and networks to localize and deliver aid efficiently and effectively. Yet only 0.68 per cent of Official Development Assistance in Myanmar goes to women’s rights organizations.[3] They need the urgent support of the international community, including from UN agencies, to access adaptive, flexible investment.
The UN and our resilient humanitarian partners – which includes a vast network of women-led organizations – reached at least 1.7 million women and girls with humanitarian assistance last year.[4] This included providing food assistance to 1.2 million women and girls and supporting more than 1 million women and girls with child protection, gender-based violence and mine protection services.[5] We also reached more than 570,000 women and girls with humanitarian Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) assistance,[6] helping them to better manage their health and hygiene, including during menstruation, pregnancy or breastfeeding.
This International Women’s Day, the UN in Myanmar reaffirms our commitment to stay and deliver in Myanmar, to ensure more women and girls have a greater chance of finishing school, earning decent and sustainable livelihoods, exercising their right to choose if, and when, to have children, and living empowered lives free from violence.
We echo the UN Secretary General’s words today highlighting that, “Women’s rights are a proven path to fair, peaceful, prosperous societies,” and his call for investment in, “programmes to end violence against women, and to drive women’s inclusion and leadership in economies, digital technologies, peacebuilding and climate action.”
Because investing in women and girls not only enhances their rights – it creates long-term social and economic benefits for whole communities.

[1]UN OCHA Myanmar Humanitarian Update No. 35, January 2024. Available online.
[2] Myanmar Humanitarian Needs and Response Plan 2024, UN OCHA, December 2023. Available online.
[3] OECD, 2021. Data available online.
[4] 2023 Myanmar Humanitarian Response Plan Year-End Dashboard. Available online.
[5] 2023 Myanmar Humanitarian Response Plan Year-End Dashboard. Available online.
[6] 2023 Myanmar Humanitarian Response Plan Year-End Dashboard. Available online.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/262611-it%E2%80%99s-time-invest-women-and-girls-safer-more-gender-equal-myanmar




Date: 07 February 2024
Title: Statement on the deaths of children in air attacks on schools in eastern Myanmar
Content: 07 February 2024
“UNICEF is appalled by the deaths of four school children and two teachers as the result of an air strike on two schools in Kayah state, eastern Myanmar, on Monday.
“The children who died were aged between 12 and 14. Many more were injured. More than 100 children were in school at the time of the strikes.
“UNICEF strongly condemns any strikes against schools and places of learning, which must always be safe spaces for children.
“Attacks against schools are a grave violation of children’s rights and can constitute a violation of international humanitarian law.”
#####
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/259982-statement-deaths-children-air-attacks-schools-eastern-myanmar




Date: 01 February 2024
Title: ILO marks third anniversary of Myanmar military takeover with call for the release of trade union leaders and all those unjustly detained
Content: 01 February 2024
GENEVA (ILO News) – On the third anniversary of the military takeover in Myanmar, the International Labour Organization (ILO) Director-General Gilbert F. Houngbo has repeated his call for the immediate release of all those detained for exercising their civil liberties and carrying out legitimate trade union activities.

"The future well-being of Myanmar depends on a peaceful transition to full democratic rule, which begins with the release of all those who are unjustly imprisoned. There can be no future for the people of Myanmar if it is not firmly anchored in the social justice they so richly deserve," he said.

The Director-General highlighted the case of Thet Hnin Aung, General Secretary of Myanmar Industry Crafts & Services Trade Unions Federation (MICS-TUsF) who according to reports was sentenced to seven years imprisonment in late 2023 following the completion of an earlier sentence.

“The sentencing of Thet Hnin Aung is a case for deep concern. The continual erosion of civic space and trade union rights in Myanmar, as highlighted in ILO’s recent Commission of Inquiry report, are unacceptable. Thet Hnin Aung and all those detained for carrying out legitimate trade union activities will not be forgotten,” Houngbo added.

The case of Thet Hnin Aung was specifically addressed in the report of the ILO Commission of Inquiry (CoI) on Myanmar. The CoI was established by the ILO Governing Body in March 2022 tasked with assessing reports of violence against trade union leaders, severe and repeated violations of basic civil liberties and a resurgence of forced labour.

The incarceration of Thet Hnin Aung, along with ongoing actions that both undermine the civil liberties of trade union leaders and members, and undercut the labour movement, will inform the follow up to the CoI report at the March 2024 session of the ILO Governing Body.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/259396-ilo-marks-third-anniversary-myanmar-military-takeover-call-release-trade-union-leaders-and




Date: 31 January 2024
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Myanmar
Content: 31 January 2024
Three years since the military overturned the democratically elected Government and arbitrarily detained its leaders on 1 February 2021, the crisis in Myanmar continues to deteriorate, with devastating impacts on civilians. On this somber anniversary, the Secretary-General underscores the urgency of forging a path towards a democratic transition with a return to civilian rule.
The Secretary-General condemns all forms of violence and calls for the protection of civilians and cessation of hostilities.  An inclusive solution to this crisis requires conditions that permit the people of Myanmar to exercise their human rights freely and peacefully. The military’s campaign of violence targeting civilians and political repression must end, and those responsible be held to account.
The Secretary-General also reiterates his concern regarding the military’s stated intention to move toward elections amid intensifying conflict and human rights violations across the country.
Some 18.6 million people in Myanmar – one-third of the population – urgently need humanitarian support this year – compared to one million before the military takeover three years ago. Unimpeded humanitarian access is also required for the United Nations and its partners.
The Secretary-General calls for sustained international and regional attention and coherent collective action to support the people of Myanmar and remains committed to work with all stakeholders, including ASEAN and other regional actors, to help secure a sustainable and inclusive peace in Myanmar.
The Secretary-General stands in solidarity with the people of Myanmar and their desire for an inclusive, peaceful and just society and stresses the need to ensure the protection of all communities, including the Rohingya, who are risking dangerous journeys in increasing numbers in search of safety, basic rights and dignity.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/259289-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-myanmar




Date: 30 January 2024
Title: Myanmar: Human rights situation worsens as military lashes out indiscriminately amid losses - Türk
Content: 30 January 2024
GENEVA  - Three years after the military launched a coup, Myanmar’s ever deteriorating human rights crisis is now in freefall, with insufficient world attention paid to the misery and pain of its people, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk said today.
“Amid all of the crises around the world, it is important no one is forgotten. The people of Myanmar have been suffering for too long. Since the end of October last year, their situation has deteriorated even further as a result of the long-established tactics of the military to target them,” he said ahead of the anniversary of the coup on 1 February.
“Pitched battles between the military and armed opposition groups have resulted in mass displacement and civilian casualties. As the military have suffered setback after setback on the battlefield, they have lashed out, launching waves of indiscriminate aerial bombardments and artillery strikes.”
Sources have verified that over 554 people have died since October. Overall for 2023, the number of civilians reportedly killed by the military rose to over 1,600, an increase of some 300 from the previous year. As of 26 January, credible sources had documented the arrest of nearly 26,000 people on political grounds – of whom 19,973 remain in detention, some reportedly subjected to torture and abuses, and with no hope of a fair trial. Over the last three years, some 1,576 individuals have died while being held by the military.
“Military tactics have consistently focused on the punishment of civilians who they view as supporting their enemies,” said Türk. “As a result, the military has routinely targeted civilians and protected objects under international humanitarian law, especially medical facilities and schools.
“Indiscriminate shelling and airstrikes underline the lack of measures to protect civilians on the ground, including disruption of basic communications that would help warn civilians in advance of fighting so they could get out of harm’s way.”
Communications and internet services in some 74 townships, including most of the 17 townships in Rakhine State, are experiencing partial, intermittent or total shutdowns.
Rakhine State has been particularly hard hit since fighting restarted there in November. Many communities, especially the Rohingya, were already suffering from the impacts of Cyclone Mocha and the military’s months-long limitation of humanitarian access and provision of assistance. There have now been several reports of Rohingya deaths and injuries amid the military’s shelling of Rohingya villages.
On Friday 26 January, fighting between the Arakan Army and the Myanmar military reportedly left at least 12 Rohingya civilians dead and 30 others wounded in Hpon Nyo Leik village, where inhabitants are trapped between the two warring parties. The Arakan Army allegedly positioned its troops in and around this Rohingya village anticipating the military’s attacks. The military repeatedly shelled the village, destroying infrastructure.
Parties to armed conflicts must take constant care to spare the civilians and civilian objects, in the conduct of military operations, which includes taking feasible measures to protect the civilian population under their control against the effects of attack, the High Commissioner said.
Similarly, Rohingya refugees, trapped in dire humanitarian conditions in camps in Bangladesh and with no safe prospect of return, are again risking desperate and dangerous journeys by sea, finding few ports or communities in the region willing to accept or welcome them.
The international community must redouble efforts to hold the military accountable, the UN Human Rights Chief said, recalling the provisional measures ordered by the International Court of Justice for Myanmar to take "all measures within its power" to protect the members of the Rohingya group from all future acts that may amount to genocide, and to take effective measures to ensure the preservation of evidence related to the alleged acts.
“This crisis will only be resolved by insisting on accountability for the military’s leadership, the release of political prisoners and the restoration of civilian rule,” Türk  said.
"I urge all Member States to take appropriate measures to address this crisis, including to consider imposing further targeted sanctions on the military to constrain their ability to commit serious violations and disregard international law -- limiting access to weapons, jet fuel, and foreign currency.
“I commend the courage and resilience of Myanmar’s civil society and democratic movement, representing all ethnic communities, and urge their inclusion in any political process to restore democracy and respect for human rights in Myanmar.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/259183-myanmar-human-rights-situation-worsens-military-lashes-out-indiscriminately-amid-losses-t%C3%BCrk




Date: 03 December 2023
Title: United for Inclusion: Empowering Persons with Disabilities in Myanmar
Content: 03 December 2023
On this International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the United Nations reiterates its unwavering commitment to promoting the rights, dignity, and well-being of persons with disabilities, particularly amidst the complex political and humanitarian landscape of Myanmar. In alignment with this year's theme, "United in Action to Rescue and Achieve the SDGs for, with, and by Persons with Disabilities", we emphasize the need for concerted efforts to dismantle barriers of persons with disabilities and cultivate an inclusive society.
In Myanmar, persons with disabilities, especially women and children, face significant challenges. The 2019 Myanmar Inter-Censal Survey reveals a disability prevalence rate of 12.8%, with states like Chin, Rakhine, and Ayeyawady reporting rates as high as 20.6%. Women and girls with disabilities experience compounded vulnerabilities, including restricted access to essential services and heightened risk of gender-based violence (GBV).
The voices of the estimated 5.9 million people living with disabilities in Myanmar, representing about 13% of the country's population[1], are not mere statistics but vital narratives that demand attention and respect. Their unique perspectives and experiences enrich our society, and acknowledging their significance is a crucial step towards a truly equitable and inclusive community.
Education and Healthcare: Cornerstones of Empowerment
Education and health are the fundamental right and key drivers for empowerment. The United Nations, working with partners and communities, strives to create an inclusive educational environment, ensuring that every child, regardless of ability, has access to quality education. In conflict situations, special attention is given to providing adapted learning environments that cater to diverse learning needs.
The United Nations is committed to ensuring comprehensive, quality and accessible health services for all, including persons with disabilities. From maternal healthcare, sexual and reproductive health services to mental health and psychosocial support, our programs aim to address the specific needs of individuals including displaced people in conflict-affected areas, leaving no one behind.
Economic and Social Inclusion: Promoting Equality
The United Nations champions economic and social inclusion as a vital pathway to overall inclusivity. We advocate for economic opportunities that fully integrate persons with disabilities, ensuring their skills and contributions are acknowledged and valued in the workforce. Social inclusion is equally critical. Through community engagement and awareness initiatives, we work towards breaking down societal barriers, fostering an environment of understanding and acceptance that embraces persons with disabilities and their rights.
Inclusive Responses in Conflict Situations: Prioritizing the most Vulnerable
In conflict settings like Myanmar, children and women with disabilities face exacerbated vulnerabilities. Displacement heightens their risk and limits access to essential services. They face limited access to critical services, including sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR), mental health and psychosocial support (MHPSS), and an increased risk of gender-based violence (GBV). The United Nations is committed to prioritizing and strengthening protection mechanisms for these marginalized groups with compounded vulnerabilities. This involves ensuring their safety, access to life-saving services, and providing inclusive support systems.
Strategic Approach: Collaboration & Partnership
In collaboration with communities, civil society organizations, and organizations for persons with disabilities, we are mainstreaming disability inclusion in humanitarian responses, addressing the specific challenges faced by persons with disabilities in conflict settings. Our strategic and collective efforts are directed towards creating protective, supportive, and empowering environments across humanitarian-peacebuilding-development nexus.
Aligned with Disability Inclusion Strategy[2], the United Nations is committed to ensuring inclusivity and leaving no one behind.
United for Action
As we commemorate this International Day of Persons with Disabilities, let us unite in action to rescue and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for, with, and by persons with disabilities. The United Nations remain committed to working collaboratively with partners and stakeholders to build a more inclusive and equitable society where the rights and contributions of every individual are recognized, respected and celebrated.

[1] 2019 Myanmar Inter-Censal Survey
[2] UN Disability Inclusion Strategy 2022-2025

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/254629-united-inclusion-empowering-persons-disabilities-myanmar




Date: 25 November 2023
Title: A Joint Statement from UNFPA and UN Women in Myanmar
Content: 25 November 2023
“UNITE! Invest to prevent violence against women and girls”
As we mark the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women on 25 November, women and girls across Myanmar have said sexual violence, harassment and early marriage are their top safety and security concerns[1] as the combined impacts of escalating armed conflict and multiple crises continue to heighten their vulnerability to violence.
Also on 25 November, is the beginning of the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence which will run until 10 December under the global theme set by the UN Secretary-General’s UNiTE campaign, “UNITE! Invest to prevent violence against women and girls”.
As the world marks the halfway point to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the urgency to end violence against women and girls has never been greater. Yet less than 0.2% of global Official Development Assistance is directed to gender-based violence protection, and women’s rights organizations remain severely underfunded.
Gender-based violence prevails in every corner of the globe – one in three women world-wide has been subjected to it. And in emergency settings – like that currently facing Myanmar – it soars. There are 9.2 million women and girls in Myanmar in urgent need of humanitarian assistance and almost half the population is living in poverty.[2] Displacement has surged over the last three years and there are now more than 2 million people internally displaced, of which 53% are women and girls.
These dire conditions have led to economic stressors including job loss, rising food prices and disrupted services. More children are being pulled out of school early and child marriage is increasing as families in crisis resort to forcing young girls to marry for perceived protection and survival. All of this – combined with deeply-rooted societal gender norms and inequalities – is aggravating tensions at home and increasing the incidence and risk of violence against women and girls, especially intimate partner violence[3] which Myanmar women believe is the most common form of gender-based violence in their communities.[4]
Despite the dire situation, international aid to Myanmar is dwindling and only 0.68 per cent[5] of it goes to women’s rights organizations. Collaborating with and sustaining funding for women’s
organizations and civil society organizations is critical as they play a vital role in ending and preventing gender-based violence by providing services on a local level, bolstering women’s empowerment and reaching those at risk of being left furthest behind.
UNITE! Invest to prevent violence against women and girls
This is why, as we mark the beginning of this year’s 16 Days campaign, we call for longer-term, flexible and accessible funding that directly supports women’s rights organizations. We also call for funding that makes gender-equality a priority; supports gender mainstreaming; and funds gender analysis and research to inform evidence-based action.
All women and girls have the right to live a life free of violence and full of dignity. It is a fundamental human right. UN Women and UNFPA in Myanmar re-affirm that the United Nations Country Team is committed to stay and deliver gender-based violence prevention and response services with local partners to end violence against women and girls.
Let’s All UNITE, Invest and ACT to End Violence against Women and Girls Now!

[1] Findings from focus group discussions conducted for 2023 Multi Sectoral Needs Analysis
[2] Myanmar Humanitarian Needs Overview, UN OCHA, January 2023, available online.
[3] Any form of physical, sexual, or psychological violence by a current or former intimate partner.
[4] Finding of focus group discussions conducted for the 2023 REACH Multi Sectoral Needs Analysis
[5] OECD data 2021, available online.

About UNFPA
UNFPA is the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency. UNFPA’s mission is to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled. UNFPA calls for the realization of reproductive rights for all and supports access to a wide range of sexual and reproductive health services, including voluntary family planning, quality maternal health care and comprehensive sexuality education.
About UN Women
UN Women is the United Nations entity dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, UN Women was established to accelerate progress on meeting their needs worldwide.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/253834-joint-statement-unfpa-and-un-women-myanmar




Date: 15 November 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Myanmar
Content: 15 November 2023
The Secretary-General is deeply concerned by the expansion of conflict in Myanmar, including in Rakhine State.  He calls on all parties to adhere to international humanitarian law and do their utmost to protect civilians.
The number of displaced people in Myanmar now exceeds 2 million.
The Secretary-General remains committed to working with ASEAN, regional and international partners to end the violence in line with Security Council resolution 2669 (2022).
The Secretary-General reaffirms that civilians should be protected in accordance with international humanitarian law and those responsible for violations must be held accountable.
The Secretary-General appeals for unhindered access for the delivery of urgent humanitarian assistance and essential services through all channels.  The safety and security for United Nations agencies and their partners is crucial.
The Secretary-General reiterates his solidarity with the people of Myanmar and their aspirations for an inclusive, just and peaceful future.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/252879-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-myanmar




Date: 10 October 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Myanmar
Content: 10 October 2023
The Secretary-General is alarmed by reports of the killing of dozens of civilians – including internally displaced persons, many of them women and children - in a bombing in Myanmar’s Kachin state on 9 October. Those responsible must be held to account.
The Secretary-General condemns all forms of violence, including the military’s intensifying attacks throughout the country, which continue to fuel regional instability. He continues to urge neighboring countries in particular to leverage their influence.
The Secretary-General reaffirms that civilians should be protected in accordance with international humanitarian law.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/248946-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-myanmar




Date: 04 October 2023
Title: ILO Myanmar Commission of Inquiry finds far-reaching violations of freedom of association and forced labour Conventions
Content: 04 October 2023
The Commission of Inquiry urges the Myanmar military authorities to immediately cease all forms of violence, torture and other inhumane treatment against trade unionists, and to end all forms of forced or compulsory labour.
GENEVA (ILO News) - The International Labour Organization’s Commission of Inquiry for Myanmar, has concluded that the actions taken by the military authorities since February 2021 have resulted in far-reaching restrictions on the exercise of basic civil liberties and trade union rights, as well as in the incapacity of trade unionists to engage in trade union activities.

Such actions violate Myanmar's obligations under the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No.87) .

The Commission also found that Myanmar did not comply with its obligations under the Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No.29) , since the military continues to exact different types of forced labour in the context of armed conflict. It also said there is a lack of adequate enforcement of the prohibition of forced or compulsory labour.

Its report  urged the Myanmar military authorities to take “immediate action, so as to stop egregious violations of the two Conventions and prevent further abuses.”

The Commission was established by the ILO Governing Body  in March 2022, following the takeover by the Myanmar military authorities in February 2021 and the military’s suppression of pro-democracy protests.

It was tasked with assessing reports of violence against trade union leaders, severe and repeated violations of basic civil liberties and a resurgence of forced labour.

The three independent experts who conducted the inquiry gathered written submissions from various entities and had direct contacts with persons affected by the complex political, human rights, humanitarian and economic crisis, as well as those having expert knowledge of the issues raised. While the Commission had no access to the country, it was able to obtain extensive information on the situation through these witnesses.

In accordance with Article 28 of the ILO Constitution, the report of the Commission of Inquiry sets out its findings, conclusions and recommendations with respect to the above matters.

The recommendations urge the military authorities to immediately cease all forms of violence, torture and other inhumane treatment against trade union leaders and members; to release and withdraw all criminal charges against trade unionists detained in relation to the exercise of their civil liberties and legitimate trade union activities; and to fully restore the protection of basic civil liberties suspended since the coup d’état. The recommendations also urge the military authorities to end the exaction of all forms of forced or compulsory labour by the army and its associated forces, as well as forced recruitment into the army.

The report sets out further recommendations to be implemented once the country returns to a situation of governance through democratic institutions and processes. It calls on all relevant parties to strive to achieve a peaceful transition to fully democratic rule.

The report of the Commission of Inquiry has been sent to the Permanent Mission of Myanmar in Geneva. Myanmar has three months to announce whether or not it accepts the recommendations; and if not, whether it proposes to refer the matter to the International Court of Justice.

This is the 14th Commission of Inquiry established in more than 100 years of ILO history to investigate allegations of serious non-observance of ratified international labour standards. Such Commissions represent the highest level of ILO supervisory mechanisms.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/248363-ilo-myanmar-commission-inquiry-finds-far-reaching-violations-freedom-association-and-forced




Date: 26 September 2023
Title: Myanmar: ‘Inhumanity in its vilest form’ continues, warns Türk
Content: 26 September 2023
The UN human rights chief on Tuesday presented another grim assessment of the situation in Myanmar, detailing escalating horrors inflicted by the military on civilians in the country.
“Each day, the people of Myanmar are enduring horrifying attacks, flagrant human rights violations and the crumbling of their livelihoods and hopes,” said Volker Türk, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
He was briefing the Human Rights Council – the UN’s primary body for the protection and promotion of rights globally, including findings since his July report was issued.
Mr. Türk emphasized the military’s blatant disregard for fundamental principles of humanity as well as the Security Council’s repeated demands for an immediate cessation of hostilities and unhindered humanitarian access.
“We are faced here with a system of ruthless repression designed to coerce and subjugate its people and to erode a society so that the predatory interests of the military are preserved,” he said.
“Senseless military attacks are exacerbating the human rights crisis with interconnected humanitarian, political, and economic impacts, imposing an unbearable toll on the people in Myanmar.”
He also voiced concerns over the military’s denial of humanitarian access to those affected by Cyclone Mocha in May, particularly in Rakhine state, where widowed Rohingya women have reportedly been forced to beg for food.
The military also threatened legal action against anyone reporting a different death toll from the massive disaster to the junta’s official figure of 116 deaths.
In this context, a photojournalist was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment by a military for covering the post-cyclone situation in Rakhine, the biggest sentence handed down to a journalist since the 2021 coup.
Mr. Türk pointed to three specific military tactics employed against civilians: airstrikes, mass killings, and the burning of villages.
Between April 2022 and May 2023, the military conducted 687 airstrikes, more than double the number in the preceding 14 months.
The report corroborated data confirming that the increased use of air power, along with heavy weaponry, military hardware and aviation fuel, “can only be purchased from foreign sources”, the rights chief said.
Mr. Türk further reported that ground operations resulted in 22 documented mass killings – involving the murder of ten or more individuals. Witnesses described soldiers using horrific methods to inflicting pain on civilians, including burning alive, beheading, dismemberment, rape and more.
“This is inhumanity in its vilest form,” the High Commissioner said, stating that entire villages were set ablaze, leading to the destruction of over 75,000 structures, driving displacement and increasing humanitarian needs.
“Civilian rule of law in Myanmar has vanished, with the military deliberately eroding the foundations of governance and justice in the country,” Mr. Türk said, urging the Security Council to refer the situation to the International Criminal Court (ICC).
According to credible sources, 24,836 people have been arrested, 19,264 are still detained, and 150 have been sentenced to death by military-controlled courts that lack any independence or adherence to due process or fair trial rights.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/247506-myanmar-%E2%80%98inhumanity-its-vilest-form%E2%80%99-continues-warns-t%C3%BCrk




Date: 26 August 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on the sixth anniversary of the displacement of Rohingya people and other communities from Myanmar
Content: 26 August 2023
25 August marks six years since the forced mass displacement of Rohingya people and other communities from Myanmar’s Rakhine State. Rohingya people remain displaced domestically and abroad, including around 1 million Rohingya in Bangladesh.
The vulnerabilities faced by people of Myanmar, including the Rohingya, have been compounded by the ongoing conflict and by the devastation caused by Cyclone Mocha. The United Nations will continue to support efforts to create conditions that would be conducive to the voluntary, safe, dignified, and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees to their places of origin in Myanmar.  
 
The Secretary-General calls on all stakeholders to redouble efforts to find comprehensive, inclusive, and durable solutions that can adequately address the root causes of systemic discrimination and violence in Myanmar and to respond to growing protection crisis and humanitarian needs while strengthening refugee protection efforts in the region for those fleeing persecution and violence.      
 
Bangladesh has demonstrated humanitarian commitments and generosity which must be acknowledged through shared responsibility. More must be done to support the Joint Response Plan and prevent a broader humanitarian crisis. 
 
The United Nations is committed to working with all stakeholders, including regional actors, to help resolve the crisis and seek accountability and justice for victims towards a sustainable peace in Rakhine State and all of Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/243610-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-sixth-anniversary-displacement




Date: 24 August 2023
Title: Comment by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk on Myanmar
Content: 24 August 2023
Geneva - Six years ago this week, Myanmar’s military initiated its latest brutal campaign in a decades-long persecution of the Rohingya Muslim minority in Rakhine State. In what has been alleged to be a genocidal operation against the Rohingya, some 10,000 men, women, boys, girls, and newborns were killed, over 300 villages destroyed and over 700,000 fled to Bangladesh within a short period of time.
In all, over a million Rohingya have fled persecution and systematic discrimination to seek international refugee protection in Bangladesh, and more than 100,000 others are being held in closed displacement camps inside Myanmar. In a sign of their desperation, thousands more continue to attempt dangerous sea crossings from Myanmar and Bangladesh, too often ending in tragedy. 
  
More must be done to hold the military to account for their repeated campaigns of persecution against the Rohingya, and for driving the country into its current human rights and humanitarian crisis. In the face of the impunity enjoyed by the Myanmar military for past and present crimes against the Rohingya as well as other groups, I call on States fully to support the ongoing international accountability efforts.
Having spent many years trying to ease the plight of the Rohingya, my most fervent wish is for them to be able to return to their homes in dignity, in freedom and properly recognised as part of the diversity of Myanmar’s population. Their human rights must be fully respected and their security guaranteed. This is currently not the case given the precarious conditions in Rakhine State. Furthermore, the military has shown no willingness to address systematic discrimination against the Rohingya.
In the face of competing crises, the international community must not forget the Rohingya people or their host community in Bangladesh. Humanitarian appeals for supporting the Rohingya, both in Myanmar and in the camps in Bangladesh, need greater support and funding. At the same time, third countries should expand Rohingya resettlement programmes or provide temporary protection, particularly in the region. And international efforts must be redoubled to reverse course in Myanmar and to ensure accountability and justice.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/243348-comment-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-volker-t%C3%BCrk-myanmar




Date: 19 August 2023
Title: Statement by the United Nations Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA), on the occasion of World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2023
Yangon - On this World Humanitarian Day, we commemorate the 20th anniversary of the tragic attack on the Canal Hotel in Baghdad that reshaped the course of humanitarian action. Today, as we reflect, we are honored to recognize the dedicated aid workers of Myanmar, who exhibit unwavering commitment in delivering crucial assistance to affected and displaced communities despite the immensely challenging operational environment.
In Myanmar, active conflicts and natural disasters have led to surging displacement and unparalleled hardships. Nearly 18 million people (one-third of the population) urgently require humanitarian aid in 2023. Despite escalating complexities and multiplying challenges, our resilient humanitarians continue to rise above difficulties to deliver life-saving support.
Local and national humanitarian partners have demonstrated unwavering resolve in supporting their fellow citizens, employing innovative approaches to reach conflict-affected and disaster-stricken areas. Their determination remains focused on the singular goal of preserving lives. Throughout the first half of 2023, these partners provided shelter, food, health services, education, protection, and more to 1.8 million men, women, and children affected by conflicts and natural disasters, achieving 36 percent of their target.
However, the journey is far from over. Completing this mission amidst insecurity and continual challenges demands safeguarding the lives of these brave humanitarians and ensuring unhindered access to those in need. Financial support is equally vital to deliver comprehensive assistance to the people of Myanmar who are grappling with the compounding consequences of COVID-19, conflict, economic crisis, and natural disasters.
Nonetheless, almost eight months into 2023, the Humanitarian Response Plan and Cyclone Mocha Flash Appeal are only funded at 25 per cent. This shortfall hinders our ability to provide timely and extensive aid.
On this World Humanitarian Day, we implore all parties to uphold international human rights and humanitarian laws, including ensuring humanitarian access and protecting aid workers. We also call upon the donor community to escalate their financial contributions, thereby reaffirming their commitment to the resilient people of Myanmar who endure this multi-faceted crisis.
In the spirit of humanity, let us stand united and resolute in our determination to protect lives and alleviate suffering no matter what and where.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/242715-statement-united-nations-office-coordination-humanitarian-affairs-unocha-occasion-world




Date: 17 August 2023
Title: Lack of access and funding hampering aid to 18 million people in Myanmar, UN Humanitarian Chief Martin Griffiths says following visit to the country
Content: 17 August 2023
(Myanmar) – Under-Secretary General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Martin Griffiths today called for expanded humanitarian access and increased funding to assist the 18 million people in need of aid across Myanmar.
“Successive crises in Myanmar have left one third of the population in need of humanitarian aid,” Griffiths said at the end of a three-day visit to the country. “They expect more and better from their leaders and from the international community.”
Humanitarian needs in Myanmar have surged in recent years, with the number of displaced persons increasing fivefold in less than three years, from 380,000 at the start of 2021 to 1.9 million at present.
During the visit, Griffiths met with families affected by conflict and natural disasters, including with Rakhine and Rohingya communities and with Myanmar authorities.
Griffiths visited Rakhine state, still reeling from the impact of cyclone Mocha three months ago. The cyclone flattened homes, damaged displacement camps, destroyed farmland, and killed livestock, leaving thousands of people vulnerable.
“Families are struggling to cope after the successive blows of the COVID-19 pandemic, conflict and cyclone Mocha. We stand ready to do more both in Rakhine and nationwide, but we urgently need greater access and more funding to do so.”
In the capital Nay Pyi Taw, Griffiths met with the State Administration Council Chairman, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, with whom he discussed what humanitarians need to scale-up direct aid to affected populations in areas affected by conflict and natural disasters.
“My meetings were an opportunity to raise the need for expanded access,” Griffiths said. “I also expressed my concerns about the protection risks facing civilians in conflict areas and the bureaucratic constraints we humanitarians are facing in reaching them. It is critical for us to have the humanitarian space we need for safe, sustained aid deliveries around the country,” Griffiths said.
Despite rising needs, the humanitarian operation in Myanmar is facing a huge resource gap with just 22 per cent of required funds received more than half-way through the year.
“Over the past three days, I spoke with brave aid workers about their efforts to help those in need. However, a severe lack of funding means aid agencies are forced to make tough decisions about cutting assistance at a time when they should be scaling up even further. This needs to change,” Griffiths said.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/242467-lack-access-and-funding-hampering-aid-18-million-people-myanmar-un-humanitarian-chief-martin




Date: 11 August 2023
Title: Survey highlights job termination levels and income security challenges in Myanmar
Content: 11 August 2023
Voluntarily and involuntarily job terminations seen to increase since March 2020 with few dismissed workers receiving statutory severance pay.
YANGON, Myanmar – A new survey by the International Labour Organization (ILO) provides insight into employment termination and income security in Myanmar.
The survey targets former wage employees whose employment was terminated – either voluntarily or involuntarily – or temporarily suspended between 1 March 2020 and 28 February 2022.
The findings reveal that during this period 70 per cent of employment terminations were voluntary resignations and 28 per cent were dismissals.
Following the military takeover on 1 February 2021, employment terminations increased 23.5 per cent, dismissals rose 41 per cent while resignations were up 22 per cent. Notably, public sector terminations increased by 392 per cent following the military takeover, with most occurring in the education sector.
The survey also highlights how basic employment rights were often not granted when employment was terminated with only 29.5 per cent of dismissed workers receiving statutory severance pay. Women and youth (ages 15–24) were found to be more likely to receive lower severance pay than men and more senior workers.
Of those who returned to work, 70 per cent found waged jobs and 30 per cent became self-employed. On average it took workers over five months to return to wage employment. Most former government employees who returned to work became self-employed.
Donglin Li, Liaison Officer, ILO Myanmar said, “Workers in Myanmar are facing a uniquely difficult set of circumstances. This survey reveals the urgent need for labour rights to be respected and the provision of social protection improved.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/241391-survey-highlights-job-termination-levels-and-income-security-challenges-myanmar




Date: 27 July 2023
Title: Myanmar labour market remains fragile in challenging conditions
Content: 27 July 2023
Labour market metrics including employment levels, job quality and productivity continue to decline with women workers particularly hard hit.
The Myanmar labour market continues to suffer from the effects of the COVID-19 crisis, the 2021 military takeover and subsequent socio-economic turmoil, according to a new labour market update issued by the International Labour Organization (ILO).

The ILO Brief finds that all metrics point to challenging labour market conditions in the country.

A recent recovery in employment numbers in some sectors has failed to keep pace with population growth. As a result, a significant drop is seen in the employment-to-population ratio, which, at 54.5 per cent in 2022, was 8.2 percentage points below the 2017 level.

The quality of jobs has declined with more workers pushed into the informal sector. Labour productivity has also fallen with estimates showing an 8 per cent drop in 2021 and a further 2 per cent loss in the first half of 2022.

The disproportionate impact on women is also revealed, with the employment-to-population ratio of women in Myanmar declining by twice as much as that of men.

Donglin Li, Liaison Officer, ILO Myanmar, said, “Employment conditions in Myanmar remain fragile and challenging with many workers facing a very uncertain future. The restoration of democracy remains critical to the future prospects of Myanmar and its people and is a necessary pre-condition of social justice and decent work.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/240370-myanmar-labour-market-remains-fragile-challenging-conditions




Date: 06 July 2023
Title: Myanmar in “deadly freefall” into even deeper violence - UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Content: 06 July 2023

This Council has heard report after report on the human rights situation in Myanmar.
 
With each successive update, it is almost impossible to imagine that the people of Myanmar can endure more suffering. 
 
Yet the country continues its deadly freefall into even deeper violence and heartbreak.
 
A regime imposed by generals for the last two and a half years has snatched away the optimism that Myanmar’s people once held for peace, democracy, and a more prosperous future. 
 
Civilians live at the whim of a reckless military authority that relies on systematic control tactics, fear and terror. 
 
Civilians also bear the devastating brunt of the grotesque violence, including against older people, people with disabilities and infants.   
 
The situation has become untenable. 
 
We see a spiralling economy, worsening the poverty already endured by much of the population. 
 
Natural resources are being exploited at dangerous rates, causing irreversible environmental harm. 
 
The voices of civil society and journalists are being strangled. 
 
Arbitrary arrests, enforced disappearances and torture continue unabated.
 
And the country’s minorities again face brutal attacks by the military in border regions, with increasing numbers of people crossing international frontiers in search of safety and protection.  More than one million Rohingya remain in neighbouring Bangladesh where they live in the world’s largest refugee camp in deplorable conditions. The conditions for their return to Myanmar are still non-existent. The military continues to carry out atrocities in their home state of Rakhine, where they are denied citizenship. 
 
Credible sources indicate that as of yesterday, 3,747 individuals have died at the hands of the military since they took power, and 23,747 have been arrested.  These figures represent the minimum that can be documented and verified - the true number of casualties is likely to be far higher.
 
Every day, the military’s ruthless so-called “four cuts” strategy continues to wreak destruction. 
 
Entire villages are razed and burned to the ground, collectively punishing civilians, by depriving them of shelter, food, water, and life-saving aid. Since the coup began, the military has scorched at least 70,000 homes across the country, 70 percent of which were in Sagaing region. Over 1.5 million people have been forcibly displaced with minimal access to humanitarian aid. 
 
Incessant airstrikes and artillery shelling are destroying homes and stealing lives. In the first six months of this year, my Office reported a 33 percent increase in indiscriminate airstrikes compared to the first half of last year, with rising attacks on civilian targets, including villages, schools, hospitals and places of worship.
 
On 11 April in Pa Zi Gyi village in Sagaing region, up to 168 civilians, including scores of women and children, were killed in an air attack. 
 
Artillery attacks have also dramatically increased, with over 563 this year, representing already 80 percent of the total attacks last year. My Office also continues to document repeated violations of the most brutal forms: sexual violence, mass killings, extra-judicial executions, beheadings, dismemberments, and mutilations. 
 
This constitutes a complete disregard of the principles of international human rights and international humanitarian law. 
 
And it displays an utter contempt for humanity. 
 
The report I present to the Council today focuses on the systematic denial by the military of life-saving humanitarian aid for civilians. They have put in place a raft of legal, financial, and bureaucratic barriers to ensure people in need do not receive and cannot access assistance. 
 
This obstruction of life-saving aid is deliberate and targeted, a calculated denial of fundamental rights and freedoms for large swathes of the population. 
 
This is being done in a situation where one-third of the entire population requires urgent help – including access to adequate housing, enough food and water, or employment. 
 
In mid-May, when Cyclone Mocha made landfall with devastating effect in Rakhine, Chin, Magway and Sagaing, the military actively prevented independent needs assessments, and obstructed access to information. They suspended all travel authorisations in Rakhine State, eventually allowing distribution of aid to resume if it was not cyclone-related. 
 
Importantly, all disbursements of Cyclone Mocha-related humanitarian aid remain frozen unless delivered by the military apparatus. They have threatened legal action against anyone reporting figures different to theirs on the number of Rohingya deaths, fixed by the military at 116, but believed to be higher. 
 
To date, because of lack of access, it has not been possible to confirm the number of Rohingya deaths and those of members from other communities. 
 
I deplore the direct attacks on humanitarian staff. Local organizations, which provide the vast majority of humanitarian aid, face the greatest risks in carrying out their work. Up to 40 humanitarian workers have been killed and over 200 arrested since the coup.  
 
The already fragile health system is now in disarray. Despite the efforts of grassroots organizations, a de facto ban on transportation of medicines and other medical supplies across large parts of Myanmar has resulted in lack of access to medical assistance.
 
15.2 million people are in need of urgent food and nutrition support. The price of food rose 177 percent in 2022, and the continued violence, land-grabbing and high risk posed by mines and unexploded ordnance has resulted in a marked decrease in food production.
 
The need for unhindered humanitarian access throughout Myanmar has never been more urgent. I call on Member States to fund the Myanmar Humanitarian Response Plan and to provide direct and flexible funding for local organisations on the ground that are desperately trying to reach people in need.
 
In line with Security Council resolution 2669 I repeat the call for an immediate end to this senseless violence. 
 
Without delay, I also urge the authorities to release the 19,377 political prisoners detained throughout Myanmar, including deposed President Win Mynt and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi. 
 
The path out of this crisis must be anchored in accountability for the grave human rights violations and other violations of international law that are occurring. I urge the Security Council to refer the situation to the International Criminal Court. Any political solution to this protracted emergency must include accountability. 
 
Regarding the one million Rohingya in Bangladesh, voluntary repatriation can only occur when conditions for safe, sustainable, and dignified returns to Myanmar are in place and when the full range of their rights will be respected and upheld. The Rohingya themselves must be at the centre of decision-making. Returns must only take place with their fully informed and truly voluntary choice.
 
For its part, the international community must continue to provide support to host communities, including and notably in Bangladesh, and adequate protection for all people who are crossing international borders. 
 
I also appeal to all countries to cease and prevent the supply of arms to the military and to take targeted measures to limit access by generals to foreign currency, aviation fuel and other means that enable attacks on Myanmar’s people.
 
This Council needs to consider how to bring to light the business interests that support the military and keep them afloat.
 
Among the numerous crimes perpetrated against the people of Myanmar, I was outraged to hear of the arrests of over a hundred people by the military on 19 June. Their crime was buying, selling, carrying, or wearing a flower to celebrate Aung San Suu Kyi’s 78th birthday. 
            
It is difficult to imagine that Myanmar’s people – who just two and a half years ago were looking forward to a better future – are being stifled by an oppressor which regards bearing a flower as a criminal act.
 
For decades, the people of Myanmar have faced repression and isolation. But they have never stopped calling for their fundamental rights to be respected, nor have they ceased to make great sacrifices for a democratic future.
 
I stand in solidarity with Myanmar’s people. I honour their extraordinary strength, spirit, and resilience as they endure day after day of crisis. 
 
I want to emphasise that the Rohingya are an integral part of Myanmar’s people and the future of the country. 
 
I remind the international community, the Security Council, ASEAN, and all Member States with influence over Min Aung Hlaing and the Tatmadaw of their responsibility to exert maximum pressure to end this crisis.
 
It is of the utmost urgency that we restore all conditions necessary for Myanmar’s people to find a way out of the heartache, and to live their lives in freedom and safety.  
 
Thank you.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/239075-myanmar-%E2%80%9Cdeadly-freefall%E2%80%9D-even-deeper-violence-un-high-commissioner-human-rights




Date: 01 July 2023
Title: Myanmar: Dire humanitarian and human rights situation compounded by military’s restrictions on aid
Content: 01 July 2023
Delivered by Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights: Ravina Shamdasani.
Myanmar’s overall humanitarian and human rights situation has deteriorated to alarming levels, exacerbated by the military’s strategy to prevent life-saving humanitarian aid from reaching those who desperately need it, a report published today by the UN Human Rights Office shows.
Since 1 February 2021, UN Human Rights has documented how the military continues to prioritize its aims over all other considerations, including the urgent need of conflict-affected communities to receive life-saving assistance. Even when humanitarian workers have been permitted access, their ability to deliver aid has been strictly limited and controlled.
The military has operated as if those providing aid are helping those opposed to their rule, rather than respecting their need for protection and facilitating their access and assistance to the civilian population in a time of crisis.
The already dire situation on the ground has been compounded by the military’s restrictions on aid imposed in the aftermath of Cyclone Mocha in May, bringing further suffering and misery to wide swathes of the population in the west and northwest of the country.
As the report makes clear, intentional obstruction or denial of humanitarian assistance may amount to gross violations of international human rights law, and serious violations of international humanitarian law.
Aiming in part at cutting off support for its opponents, the military has employed its four-cuts strategy to kill and injure thousands of civilians while destroying goods and infrastructure necessary for survival, including food, shelter, and medical centres, the report says.
Myanmar’s human rights and humanitarian crisis is massive. An estimated 1.5 million people have been internally displaced, and approximately 60,000 civilian structures have reportedly been burnt or destroyed. Over 17.6 million people, or one-third of the overall population, require some form of humanitarian assistance.
Between February 2021 and April 2023, credible sources verified that at least 3,452 people had died at the hands of the military and its affiliates, and 21,807 individuals had been arrested.
Notably, our report says the security situation has dramatically worsened for humanitarian workers since the coup. Aid providers are consistently exposed to risks of arrest, harassment or other mistreatment, or even death.
Under international human rights law and international humanitarian law, populations-in-need are entitled to receive assistance to ensure the respect of their rights to food, shelter, and health. All parties must allow and facilitate unimpeded passage of life-saving relief to all those in need".
In the context of armed conflicts, intentional obstruction or denial of humanitarian assistance may further constitute war crimes such as wilful killing, torture and other degrading treatment, starvation, and collective punishment. Such intentional denial can also constitute crimes against humanity such as murder, extermination, torture and other inhumane acts, or persecution, when committed in the context of a widespread or systematic attack against a civilian population.
The UN Human Rights Chief will present the report to the Human Rights Council next week.
Read the full report.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/238761-myanmar-dire-humanitarian-and-human-rights-situation-compounded-military%E2%80%99s-restrictions-aid




Date: 30 June 2023
Title: Children paying a high price for engaging in work in Myanmar
Content: 30 June 2023
Yangon, Myanmar (ILO News) – A new report assessing the situation of working children in Myanmar shows the extent to which children are working to support their families and the high incidence of hazardous work they engage in.
More than 70 per cent of working children interviewed in an assessment by ILO Myanmar’s Asia Regional Child Labour Project (ARC) in the Yangon Region, Ayeyarwady Region and Kayin State were working primarily due to financial challenges in their households.
School closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the political crisis had also driven children to work, further exacerbating child labour. Even after schools re-opened, many children did not return to school due to safety concerns resulting from the political instability in the country.
A third of children interviewed in the three areas were in domestic work with others primarily in agriculture, manufacturing, and wholesale and retail trade – many of whom were working long hours for low pay.
The assessment also found that children were often performing hazardous work and dangerous tasks. Almost 90 per cent of children interviewed who were working in construction sector carried heavy loads and over 80 per cent worked long hours under the sun without a break. Many interviewed children reported that they experienced accidents and injuries, with minor injuries being the most frequent, followed by bruises, bumps and swelling.
“More than half of working children in this assessment said they wanted to have an education if given the chance, reflecting the extent to which work has interfered with their aspirations to go to school. This situation has only been made worse since COVID-19 and the nationwide conflicts caused by political crisis.,” said Donglin Li, Liaison Officer and Representative, ILO Myanmar.
Communities and employers in the three regions appeared largely unaware of the laws relating to the minimum age for employing children. Some employers, notably in the agriculture sector, indicated that they preferred to employ children because they can be easily controlled, paid less, and do not frequently complain. Others employed children who accompanied their parents to work due to safety concerns at home.
To effectively address child labour issues in Myanmar, the report provides recommendations for appropriate awareness raising, advocacy and overarching key policy interventions to be pursued, when the situation allows.
ILO’s ARC Project is a regional project implemented by the International Labour Organization (ILO) in Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal and Pakistan. The assessment   released to mark the World Day Against Child Labour on 12 June 2023 was prepared with financial support from Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) of the Government of the United Kingdom.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/238719-children-paying-high-price-engaging-work-myanmar




Date: 16 June 2023
Title: Skilled, essential but undervalued. It’s time to solve the domestic work paradox
Content: 16 June 2023
Despite performing a huge range of skilled tasks around the home, domestic workers’ efforts often go unrecognised in terms of pay and working conditions. To mark Domestic Workers Day, 16 June 2023, Anna Engblom, Chief Technical Adviser of ILO’s TRIANGLE in ASEAN programme explains why this needs to change.
Every person – mainly women – who spends time at home cooking, cleaning, looking after children, gardening, doing laundry, managing the household or caring for the elderly or disabled will tell you that it is tiring and emotionally draining work.
They will also tell you that it is skilled work. Consider it takes to cook a dinner for six with multiple dietary needs, look after a baby or take care of elderly parents.
Domestic work exists in a space between a service that was ‘traditionally’ unpaid and the booming care sector that – especially post-COVID - is considered essential. In this grey area, the skills needed to perform domestic work, including providing care within the home, are often denied and almost always undervalued.
As a result, most domestic workers across the ASEAN region – the vast majority of whom are women and migrants – are considered ‘unskilled’ workers. Migration regimes and the conditions of work in the sector reflect this, with those arriving to work as domestic workers consequently receiving poor pay and benefits.
A recent study by the International Labour Organization (ILO) looks specifically at migrant domestic workers’ skills and working conditions. Mapping of domestic workers’ skills had never been tackled in South-East Asia. The study compared the tasks that domestic workers perform in homes against the International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO) and found that almost all domestic workers are operating at a medium skill level, far higher than ‘unskilled.’
In addition, the study found that migrant domestic workers are using key transferable skills – skills that can be used in a wide variety of work settings and are not particular to domestic or care work – including speaking the local language, clear communication, and managing their or others’ emotions.
Across the region, skills training for domestic workers is not, however, consistent or comprehensive. It rarely recognizes the variations in the levels of work that are actually present, expected and required in the sector. Few employers consider it a necessary requirement and many domestic workers continue to be hired without the requisite skills for the work. At the same time, many others have skills that go unrecognized and inadequately compensated.
Skills recognition opportunities for domestic workers that consider years of experience and transferable skills should be available, with this recognition reflected in pay and working conditions. Accessible and flexible migration pathways could also go a long way to making domestic work less risky and more attractive. This would make a huge difference to the lives and livelihoods of millions of workers across the region.
Change is certainly needed. The research also, sadly, found that domestic workers are still suffering from some of the worst working conditions, including chronic underpayment and forced labour. It estimated forced labour rates among migrant domestic workers at 29% in Malaysia, 7% in Singapore and 4% in Thailand.
And thus the paradox. Domestic work allows society to function yet is still considered unworthy of the same protections offered in other jobs. Domestic work is ‘essential,’ but the complexity of the work remains unseen. Domestic work frees other workers to go to work, yet domestic workers’ skills are the least recognised.
On 16 June 2011, the ILO adopted the Domestic Workers Convention (No. 189) which acknowledged in international law that domestic work should be protected equally to other kinds of work. That means minimum wage, maximum hours, overtime pay, holidays, access to social protection and more.
Domestic work can and should be a source of empowerment and dignity. This Domestic Workers Day, the ILO calls for all employers of domestic workers and governments to recognise the skills and the contribution domestic workers make to families and economies alike. Domestic workers are integral to our societies, it is time that in return, they receive the recognition and support they need and have always deserved.
The ILO TRIANGLE in ASEAN is a partnership between the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT), the Global Affairs Canada (GAC), and the International Labour Organization (ILO). TRIANGLE in ASEAN delivers technical assistance and support with the overall goal of maximizing the contribution of labour migration to equitable, inclusive and stable growth in ASEAN.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/236540-skilled-essential-undervalued-it%E2%80%99s-time-solve-domestic-work-paradox




Date: 13 June 2023
Title: Urban poverty in Yangon tackled in new UN project to build community resilience
Content: 13 June 2023
Yangon: UNDP, UN Women and UN-Habitat yesterday brought together representatives from local communities, NGOs, development partners and the private sector to discuss research on urban poverty and the innovative strategies being used in a new project building resilience in low-income urban communities.
The event took place in Myanmar’s commercial capital, Yangon, where the compounded crises of the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic and political upheaval resulting from the February 2021 coup have had a devastating impact on Yangon’s urban poor.
“When confronted with turmoil across the country, the breakdown in the rule of law, the human rights abuses, the alarming numbers of people displaced by conflict and disasters, it is easy to overlook what is happening right here in Yangon. Life has always been hard for the urban poor, but now it is so much harder. Poor people are much poorer, and their numbers have grown significantly,” Titon Mitra, UNDP Myanmar’s Resident Representative, said in his opening remarks.
“If we do not turn our attention to the urban poor and vulnerable, we may enable the conditions for a rapid deepening of intergenerational poverty.”
The Urban Resilience Project (URP) aims to support those made most vulnerable by urban poverty in Yangon, including women and people living in informal settlements. It is a joint project between UNDP, UN Women and UN-Habitat, working in eight townships, five of which are under martial law, identified as the most socially and economically marginalized. It aims to strengthen residents’ resilience by supporting community-led groups to improve basic services and facilities; upgrade the physical environment of informal settlements; address gender-based violence; and promote livelihoods, skills and job creation.
UNDP’s Myanmar Development Observatory presented the findings from the recently published report Helping communities weather the socio-economic downturn: Building urban resilience.
The study shows people living in Yangon’s eight poorest townships earn 30 percent less than those in the rest of Yangon  and that almost a quarter of the residents of these townships had often gone without a cash income in the past 12 months.
Compared to the rest of Yangon, households in the eight URP townships are:
During the panel discussion, Catarina Camarinhas, Country Programme Manager a.i. of UN-Habitat, highlighted that only 30 percent of Myanmar’s population resides in urban areas, which presents many opportunities for sustainable urbanization and poverty reduction.
“Building resilience and promoting sustainable urbanization in Myanmar requires comprehensive initiatives and collaboration. By engaging multiple stakeholders and implementing effective local-level strategies, we are working towards sustainable development and climate change adaptation. Together with our partners, we aim to implement gender-responsive climate action in Myanmar,” she said.
Jackie Appel, CEO and founder of the Step-in Step-up Academy, explained how her NGO has been providing vocational training to young people to meet specific job needs in Yangon’s workforce, including in healthcare, office work and hospitality. One young woman explained to the audience at the event how she took part in training to be a cashier and immediately was employed by Yoma Bank after graduating.
Shihab Uddin Ahamad, WaterAid Myanmar’s Country Director, meanwhile discussed how the organization is bringing affordable clean water to low-income areas of Yangon through establishing bottling plants, and helping garment factory workers, who are almost all women, subsidize their incomes through food and hygiene product packages.
Women and girls in Yangon’s urban areas are particularly vulnerable. Over 80 percent of women in the baseline study said rising food prices and loss of employment or revenues were their major challenges. And in a 2021 UN Women study in Yangon, two out of three women reported being extremely worried about becoming a victim of a violent crime.
“We know 80 percent of women are working in informal employment in Yangon, that makes them vulnerable to economic downturn and provides hardly any social protection. On top of that, a lack of safe shelter and housing conditions increases the risk of sexual and gender-based violence,” said Karin Fueg, Country Representative a.i. of UN Women.
“Under the URP, UN Women is leading a gender-responsive incubator and business accelerator to help women access business skills and finance, and to address gender norms through life skills, help accessing business networks and referrals to support services like legal aid, psycho-social support or gender-based violence services,” Ms Fueg said.
The Urban Resilience Project’s community-based approach will create opportunities for resilience building, economic growth, poverty reduction, and sustainable development. By addressing the needs of the most vulnerable and fostering a sense of ownership, the project lays a foundation for long-term success and positive change.
• Read the report: https://www.undp.org/publications/helping-communities-weather-socio-economic-downturn-building-urban-resilience 
• Explore the Myanmar Development Observatory: https://www.undp.org/myanmar/projects/myanmar-development-observatory
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/236423-urban-poverty-yangon-tackled-new-un-project-build-community-resilience




Date: 12 June 2023
Title: World Day Against Child Labour 2023: ILO Myanmar calls for concerted actions to promote social justice in the fight against child labour
Content: 12 June 2023
Urgent action needed to help the more than one million children trapped in child labour in Myanmar due to poverty and crises.
To mark World Day Against Child Labour on 12 June, ILO Myanmar calls for concerted actions among all key stakeholders to address the root causes of child labour and ensure social justice for all working children and their families.
Over one million children in Myanmar between 5 and 17 years old are trapped in child labour, with over half of them involved in hazardous work that directly endangers their health, safety, and moral development.
Poverty and crises are key to driving children into work, while decent work and social justice can help address the root causes of child labour and keep children out of labour.
“The current social, economic, and political crises in Myanmar have profoundly heightened the vulnerability of families resorting to child labour, with the children of the poorest families having been impacted the most, we need to increase our effort to protect children now more than ever and promote social justice,” said Mr Donglin Li, ILO Myanmar Liaison Officer/Representative.
The abolition of child labour is a cornerstone of the aspiration for social justice, through which every worker can claim freely and on the basis of equality of opportunity and treatment their fair share of the wealth that they have helped to generate.
Reaffirming its commitment to promote decent work for all workers and social justice for all in the fight against child labour in Myanmar, ILO Myanmar through its child labour projects and in partnership with communities and civil society actors is supporting the establishment of community-based child labour monitoring system and providing direct support services to children engaged in work or at risk of child labour and their families in pilot areas in various states and regions in Myanmar.
World Day Against Child Labour activities in Myanmar
Aligning with this year’s World Day Against Child Labour theme, ‘‘Social Justice for All. End Child Labour!”, ILO Myanmar will engage social partners, civil society and development partners in training and awareness raising activities to be conducted throughout Myanmar until August.
A photo exhibition ”A boy with many jobs” will take place from 13 June to 17 June at the Goethe-Institut Myanmar, while an online essay competition “Hidden dreams and voices” and community based events across various states and regions will take place over the coming months. More details will be announced via the ILO Myanmar Facebook page.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/235931-world-day-against-child-labour-2023-ilo-myanmar-calls-concerted-actions-promote-social




Date: 12 June 2023
Title: Humanitarian access suspended in cyclone-ravaged Rakhine State
Content: 12 June 2023
Myanmar – One month after Cyclone Mocha hit western Myanmar with brutal force, the State Administration Council has suspended humanitarian access in Rakhine State, crippling life-saving aid distributions to affected communities.
“Four weeks into this disaster response and with the monsoon season well underway, it is unfathomable that humanitarians are being denied access to support people in need,” UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i Ramanathan Balakrishnan said.
Since the cyclone hit on 14 May, humanitarians have been reaching a growing number of people with aid using limited travel authorizations granted to organizations with long-standing operations in Rakhine. More than 110,000 people across the affected areas have received shelter and other relief items, while food assistance has reached almost 300,000 people in Rakhine alone. This new access decision suspends that assistance, paralyzing the humanitarian response.
“This decision is yet another devastating setback for more than a million people whom humanitarians had planned to reach with life-saving assistance in cyclone-hit Rakhine state over the weeks and months ahead. Just when vulnerable communities need our help the most, we have been forced to stop distributions of food, drinking water, and shelter supplies,” Mr. Balakrishnan said.
Since the cyclone, humanitarians have had extensive discussions to scale up assistance in Rakhine and other cyclone-affected areas. After significant engagement at both Nay Pyi Taw and regional level, initial approval for distribution and transportation plans and additional travel authorization was received for wider distributions in June. This has since been rescinded, pending further clearances. Similar plans for distribution and transportation in Chin also remain pending.
“This denial of access unnecessarily prolongs the suffering of those without food to eat or a roof over their head. It increases the risk of food insecurity and water-borne disease,” Mr. Balakrishnan said. “On behalf of humanitarian actors, I urge the State Administration Council to urgently reconsider this decision and re-instate the initial approval that was granted for distributions which will allow aid that is ready and waiting to flow to people who desperately need it.”
On 23 May, humanitarians launched a US$333 million Flash Appeal for donor support to reach 1.6 million people affected by Cyclone Mocha in Rakhine, Chin, Sagaing, Magway and Kachin.  To date, just $10.3m has been received.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/235958-humanitarian-access-suspended-cyclone-ravaged-rakhine-state




Date: 31 May 2023
Title: IOM Appeals for USD 11.25 Million to Respond to Cyclone Mocha in Myanmar
Content: 31 May 2023
Yangon – The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is appealing for USD 11.25 million to scale up its emergency assistance to vulnerable populations affected by Cyclone Mocha in Myanmar.
The impacts of the Extremely Severe Cyclone Mocha, which struck Myanmar on 14 May,  greatly exacerbated existing needs on top of an already dire humanitarian situation for the more than 5.4 million people estimated to have been in the path of the cyclone.  These include the 3.4 million people living in the highest impact zone, and particularly the 1.3 million internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the affected states of Rakhine, Chin, Sagaing, Magway and Kachin.
The IOM Cyclone Mocha Flash Appeal aims to reach over 75,000 vulnerable individuals, including IDPs in protracted displacement and newly displaced, and host communities, including those in affected areas with limited access to basic services.
The Appeal also covers individuals with severe protection needs, such as returned migrants forced to return to cyclone and conflict-affected areas without prior planning, and those who have experienced labour exploitation, gender-based violence, trafficking and/or abuse.
In line with emerging needs, IOM’s humanitarian response will focus on five sectors of assistance, including access to basic health services; shelter and non-food items support; protection and mental health and psychosocial support; water, sanitation and hygiene; and food security.
“The crisis comes at a time of increased political turmoil and conflict, compounding an already critical humanitarian situation, hence our rapid leveraging of existing resources around the country to support vulnerable populations most in need,” said Dragan Aleksoski, IOM’s Chief of Mission in Myanmar.
IOM teams in Rakhine have begun providing mobile health services to populations in need in affected areas of Sittwe, Buthidaung, Pauktaw and Maungdaw. Surge staff have also been mobilized, and IOM teams on the ground are gauging the full impact of the cyclone and developing distribution plans for highly needed shelter, non-food items and water, sanitation and hygiene items in coordination with humanitarian partners, while transfer of resources from other missions in the region is being explored.
IOM has been operational in Myanmar since 2005 and is present across the country.  With over 240 staff, a country office in Yangon, a liaison office in Nay Pyi Taw, sub-offices in Rakhine, Sagaing, Kachin, Kayin, Mon, nine Migrant Resource Centres, including in Sittwe, as well as long-established collaborations with a broad range of partners around the country, IOM is well positioned to respond rapidly.
“Advocacy at the highest regional and global levels for immediate and unrestricted access remains crucial to ensure rapid delivery of essential life-saving assistance to the people most affected by the cyclone,” noted Aleksoski.
You can find the full appeal here: https://crisisresponse.iom.int/sites/g/files/tmzbdl1481/files/uploaded-files/IOM%20Myanmar%20Flash%20Appeal%20-%20Cyclone%20Mocha%20Response%20-%20May%202023_0.pdf
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/234231-iom-appeals-usd-1125-million-respond-cyclone-mocha-myanmar




Date: 31 May 2023
Title: WFP Operational Update: WFP Steps up Assistance to those Affected by Cyclone Mocha in Myanmar
Content: 31 May 2023
SITTWE – WFP and its local partners have reached over 230,000 people with life-saving food assistance in the wake of Cyclone Mocha, the most destructive storm to strike Myanmar in over a decade. Within 72 hours after landfall on 14 May, WFP began food distributions in Sittwe, Rakhine’s state capital, which suffered considerable damage. The cyclone has flattened houses, destroyed livelihoods, and disrupted telecommunications, power, and supply chains.
“This is a climate emergency within a much larger complex emergency. Being already displaced, cyclone survivors now have been left with next to nothing, rendering them even more vulnerable,” said Stephen Anderson, WFP Country Director in Myanmar.
“WFP and partners are moving quickly to transport and distribute our existing stocks of food to all those in need wherever they are, but these supplies are rapidly dwindling. Support from the international community is urgently required.”

Note to the editor:
High resolution photos available here: https://multimedia.wfp.org/Share/4x0tm820vb705p7og6182ao04e610434
Broll available here: https://we.tl/t-j3W6NYZVMA
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/234108-wfp-operational-update-wfp-steps-assistance-those-affected-cyclone-mocha-myanmar




Date: 23 May 2023
Title: $333M Humanitarian Appeal To Support Communities Hit By Cyclone Mocha In Myanmar
Content: 23 May 2023
(Myanmar)- The humanitarian community in Myanmar has launched a $333 million Flash Appeal to assist 1.6 million people affected by Cyclone Mocha that devastated the country’s west on 14 May.
“This perfect storm has devastated coastal areas, leaving hundreds of thousands of already vulnerable people without a roof over their heads as the monsoon looms,” Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i. for Myanmar, Ramanathan Balakrishnan said. “We are now in a race against time to provide people with safe shelter in all affected communities and prevent the spread of water-borne disease. For this life-saving work, we need the generous financial support of the international community.”
The Flash Appeal requests an urgent injection of funds for activities to support vulnerable people in the highest impact zone across Rakhine, Chin, Magway, Sagaing and Kachin.
“This is a humanitarian catastrophe in one of country’s poorest areas, where there are high pre-existing needs, and we need donors to dig deep to support scaled-up distributions to the most vulnerable ahead of the rains,” the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i. said.
The Flash Appeal includes a combination of $211 million in prioritized activities from the 2023 Myanmar Humanitarian Response Plan that are being pivoted to support the cyclone response in affected areas, plus $122 million for additional activities or support to people newly affected by this disaster. The 1.6 million people identified for support under this appeal include those who have lost their homes, people who lack access to health services and clean water, people who are food insecure or malnourished, displaced people living in camps, stateless people, women, children and people with a disability.
Extremely Severe Cyclone Mocha crossed the coast in Rakhine State just over a week ago, before moving inland bringing flooding, landslides and strong winds. The cyclone recorded wind speeds of more than 250kmph as it approached the Rakhine coast, making it one of the strongest cyclones ever to hit the country.
“In the Rakhine State capital, Sittwe, almost no house was spared damage and displacement camps in the path of the cyclone have been left in splinters. Those affected are facing a long, miserable monsoon season if we cannot mobilize resources to deliver life-saving supplies,” Mr Balakrishnan said.
Link: Cyclone Mocha Flash Appeal
Images, video and other background materials: Press handout from the UN in Myanmar on Cyclone Mocha

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/232831-333m-humanitarian-appeal-support-communities-hit-cyclone-mocha-myanmar




Date: 22 May 2023
Title: IOM Mobilizes Response for Communities Devastated by Cyclone Mocha
Content: 22 May 2023
Geneva / Yangon – Extremely severe Cyclone Mocha, which made landfall in Rakhine State of Myanmar, near its capital Sittwe, on Sunday, 14 May, has left a trail of destruction in both Rakhine state and the Northwest of Myanmar, encompassing Chin, Magway and Sagaing states. Approaching the coast with windspeeds of up to 250km per hour, the cyclone resulted in severe damage to buildings, infrastructure and the environment.
Information on the impact of the cyclone initially emerged slowly, as phone lines and internet connectivity in Rakhine were badly affected. The damage in Sittwe and surrounding low-lying areas has been severe, with most buildings affected and many houses completely destroyed. Damage in Rathedaung township is also severe. Telecommunications problems persist, however, field observations indicate damage and loss of life in several other townships as well, including Buthidaung, Kyauktaw, Maungdaw, Minbya, Mrauk-U, Pauktaw and Ponnagyun.
Information on the impact in Northwest Myanmar – already one of the areas most affected by conflict and political turmoil – is emerging slowly, but early reports suggest that several areas of Chin, Magway and Sagaing, have suffered damage due to flooding and strong winds, while flash updates from the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid (OCHA) indicate that almost 5.4 million people are estimated to have been in the path of the cyclone.
While many people had evacuated from areas expected to be most affected in Rakhine and other locations, evacuation centres were also hit by the storm, causing damage and partial collapse of buildings. Initial observations suggests that internally displaced persons (IDP) camps, in particular those close to the coast and riverbeds, were severely hit, greatly damaged and/or destroyed. Access to clean water and food is very limited and remains a top need for affected populations, while other priority needs include shelter, as well as non-food items such as blankets and solar lamps, and health assistance.
“It is important to remember that the areas affected by the cyclone were already in dire humanitarian need. There are more than 1.2 million IDPs in Rakhine and the Northwest alone, and  17.6 million people were already in need of assistance nationwide before this disaster,” said IOM Chief of Mission, Dragan Aleksoski. “The impact of Cyclone Mocha will further worsen the situation of people already in very difficult circumstances and therefore immediate access to the affected people for delivery of humanitarian aid is paramount.”
IOM has been present in Myanmar since 2006 and was instrumental in the response to Cyclone Nargis in 2008. IOM’s support to mobile communities in Rakhine is significant, and the Organization has been providing shelter and non-food items support, including shelter construction, site improvements, including WASH facilities, and distribution of critical items to IDP populations, such as cooking fuel sticks, tarpaulins, as well as multi-purpose cash, in coordination with shelter and camp management partners.
IOM health teams have also been providing essential health services to those most in need, in coordination with local and community-based actors, including community-based health workers and village health committees. Current support includes essential maternal, newborn and child health care services, nutrition promotion, clinical referrals, as well as direct assistance through mobile health teams, including immunization services and TB case management.
With over 240 staff across Myanmar, and direct presence in Sittwe, Maungdaw, Buthidaung, and Pauktaw, IOM is mobilizing teams to facilitate rapid support of mobile and cyclone-affected communities across Rakhine.
Surge support staff have been mobilized, and IOM teams on the ground in Rakhine are currently gauging the full impact of the cyclone, in coordination with humanitarian partners. With markets across the state severely affected, IOM is preparing to send relief items from Yangon to support immediate assistance to impacted families.
IOM health teams are also on stand-by to provide mobile health services to populations in need. Transfer of resources from other IOM missions in the region, is also being explored in light of the vast emerging needs in cyclone-affected areas, while coordination with all relevant actors to ensure critical and life-saving assistance reaches the most vulnerable is also being undertaken in line with humanitarian principles.
"We have maintained a consistent presence in Myanmar through multiple crises and remain committed to stay and deliver in support of all the people of Myanmar,” said Aleksoski.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/232825-iom-mobilizes-response-communities-devastated-cyclone-mocha




Date: 14 May 2023
Title: Humanitarian agencies on standby for scaled-up cyclone response in Western Myanmar
Content: 14 May 2023
Myanmar - The United Nations and its humanitarian partners are standing ready to provide lifesaving disaster assistance to communities hit by Cyclone Mocha which is forecast to make landfall in Myanmar’s Rakhine State later today.
“Communities are bracing for the arrival of this extremely severe cyclone which is expected to be packing winds gusting to 210 kmph when it crosses the coast,” Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i. Ramanathan Balakrishnan said.
The cyclone is forecast to bring strong winds and significant storm surge to coastal areas in Rakhine and evacuations of low-lying areas are already well underway through local authorities. The large weather system is expected to then move inland, bringing heavy rain in areas where there is a high risk of landslides and flooding.
Even before the cyclone, an estimated 6 million people are already in humanitarian need in the states where impacts are currently projected (Rakhine, Chin, Magway and Sagaing). Collectively, these states in the country’s west host 1.2 million displaced people, many of whom are fleeing conflict and are living in the open without proper shelter. It will also be a dangerous 24 hours for hundreds of thousands of refugees in camps in Bangladesh who are also likely to face strong winds and heavy rain as the cyclone passes just over the border in Myanmar.
“For a cyclone to hit an area where there is already such deep humanitarian need is a nightmare scenario, impacting hundreds of thousands of vulnerable people whose coping capacity has been severely eroded by successive crises,” Mr Balakrishnan said.
The humanitarian community activated its Emergency Response Preparedness Plan at the start of the week and has been engaging with all stakeholders to ensure readiness to respond.  Aid organizations have been working around the clock to get humanitarian assistance to the areas most likely to be impacted and make sure affected communities know how to keep themselves safe.
“We have done everything we can to prepare by pre-positioning personnel and available stocks across the affected area so that we are ready to respond as soon as the cyclone has passed. Access to affected people and increased funding will be critical to making this assistance possible over the critical days ahead,” the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i noted.
The Myanmar Humanitarian Response Plan is less than 10 per cent funded with some essential sectors not yet receiving any funding yet this year.
“An urgent injection of funding is desperately needed so that we can ensure no one is left behind as a result of this cyclone but also so that we can keep responding to the 17.6 million people already in need as a result of other crises nationwide. I urge donors to give generously in support of the people of Myanmar at this difficult time,” Mr Balakrishnan said.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/231445-humanitarian-agencies-standby-scaled-cyclone-response-western-myanmar




Date: 13 May 2023
Title: Note to Correspondents: WFP gears up ahead of the arrival of Cyclone Mocha
Content: 13 May 2023
Sittwe – The World Food Programme (WFP) is closely monitoring Cyclone Mocha, which is expected to make landfall this Sunday in Myanmar and Bangladesh. Emergency preparedness is underway in areas likely to be in the cyclone’s trajectory.
Working with partners, WFP is gearing up for a large-scale emergency response, putting in place contingency plans, and prepositioning food and relief supplies, vehicles, and emergency equipment.
In Myanmar, WFP has pre-positioned enough food to cover the needs of more than 400,000 people in Rakhine State and neighboring areas for one month.
Anticipating interruptions to transport and telecommunications services, WFP teams are also putting in place systems to serve the broader humanitarian community with their preparations and potential response to the cyclone.
Unimpeded humanitarian access to and support from communities in need will be critical in responding to any immediate impacts of the cyclone and for the longer-term recovery process.

“We are preparing for the worst, while hoping for the best. Cyclone Mocha is heading to areas burdened by conflict, poverty, and weak community resilience. Many of the people most likely to be affected are already reliant on regular humanitarian assistance from WFP. They simply cannot afford another disaster.”
•      See here WFP’s live analysis on potential impact of Cyclone Mocha
•      Photos available at link

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFPAsiaPacific

For more information please contact:
Elise Gibergues-Newton: Communications Officer, WFP Asia and the Pacific, elise.giberguesnewton@wfp.org, +08 1130 1966
Htet Oo Linn: Communications Officer, WFP Myanmar, htetoo.linn@wfp.org, +95 9 97060 8171

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/231441-note-correspondents-wfp-gears-ahead-arrival-cyclone-mocha




Date: 11 May 2023
Title: Media advisory: In first mission to India, Special Envoy Heyzer calls for regional unity for de-escalation of violence, release of political prisoners and return to civilian rule based on the will of the people
Content: 11 May 2023
New Delhi - The Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer today reinforced that a unified regional approach supporting Myanmar-led solutions, in accordance with the will and needs of the people, can make tangible progress on the ground, urgently address the suffering of the people and prevent a catastrophe in the heart of Asia.
In her first visit to New Delhi as UN Special Envoy from 9 to 10 May, the Special Envoy held discussions with Minister of External Affairs of India H.E. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Foreign Secretary Vinay Mohan Kwatra and Joint Secretary (Bangladesh-Myanmar) Smita Pant.
Underlining that India as a neighbouring country has been particularly impacted by the situation in Myanmar, Indian officials emphasized the need for immediate cessation of violence by all sides and fostering dialogue for return of peace, stability and democracy in Myanmar. Indian officials also reiterated their support to the efforts of the UN and ASEAN.
Special Envoy Heyzer highlighted India’s key role in the United Nations and as a leader of the Global South holding the current presidency of the G20. She appreciated India’s constructive efforts towards peaceful resolution of the situation in Myanmar and also expressed the United Nations’ gratitude to the Government and people of India for generously hosting over 53,000 people from Myanmar, acknowledging the major challenges facing Myanmar’s neighbouring countries affected by the escalating conflict and violence.
In this context, the Special Envoy reinforced the need for concrete steps to resolve the crisis and build the foundation for sustainable peace and a return to civilian rule based on the will of the people, such as cessation of violence, immediate release of all political prisoners, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, and unimpeded humanitarian assistance through all available channels reaching the most vulnerable in areas of active conflict.
Guided by both the UN General Assembly and UN Security Council, Special Envoy Heyzer continues to closely cooperate with the ASEAN Special Envoy to create a conducive environment for inclusive dialogue and a political solution to the Myanmar crisis.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/231098-media-advisory-first-mission-india-special-envoy-heyzer-calls-regional-unity-de-escalation




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: Media advisory: Special Envoy Heyzer visits Beijing to strengthen regional unity to respond to crisis in Myanmar
Content: 03 May 2023
BEIJING – During her first visit to Beijing as Special Envoy this week, the Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer reinforced the key role of regional countries in addressing the multidimensional crisis in Myanmar.
During the visit from 1 to 2 May, Special Envoy Heyzer held discussions with State Councillor and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China Qin Gang and Special Envoy for Asian Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China Deng Xijun.
The State Councillor underscored the international community must act prudently and pragmatically to prevent the intensification of the Myanmar conflict and its spillover in the region. He stressed appreciation for the Special Envoy's effective implementation of her mandate and China’s strong support to her role.
The Special Envoy emphasized China’s important role in the United Nations including as a permanent member of the UN Security Council and its continued support for ASEAN’s centrality in facilitating a peaceful resolution in the interests of the people of Myanmar, constructive dialogue among all parties as well as the provision of humanitarian assistance.
Special Envoy Heyzer stressed that a robust international response to the ongoing crisis in Myanmar required a unified regional effort involving neighbouring countries that can leverage influence towards cessation of violence, civilian protection and stability in Myanmar.
In line with the Security Council resolution 2669 (2022) on Myanmar, the Special Envoy continues to closely cooperate with the ASEAN Special Envoy to seek a peaceful and inclusive process towards de-escalating the violence and reaching a sustainable political solution guided by the will and needs of the people.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/229959-media-advisory-special-envoy-heyzer-visits-beijing-strengthen-regional-unity-respond-crisis




Date: 27 April 2023
Title: Ensuring Safety and Health for All Workers in Myanmar: A Fundamental Right
Content: 27 April 2023
In marking World Day for Safety and Health at Work, the ILO calls for increased efforts in workplaces to cultivate a safe and healthy working environment.
YANGON, Myanmar (ILO news) - On this year’s World Day for Safety and Health at Work, in the midst a deep and ongoing crisis in Myanmar, the International Labour Organization (ILO) calls for intensified efforts to prioritize occupational safety and health (OSH) in all workplaces across all sectors.
In June 2022, the ILO took a historic step of including the right to a safe and healthy working environment in the ILO’s Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. This decision emphasizes the responsibility of governments and employers to provide a safe and healthy working environment for all workers and recognizes the right of every worker to be protected from hazards and risks that can cause injury, illness, or death in the workplace.
Mr. Donglin Li, ILO Liaison Officer to Myanmar, underscores the importance of the issue, stating, "A safe and healthy working environment is crucial for the well-being of workers and the overall success of businesses in Myanmar.  To ensure that every worker, regardless of their background or occupation, is protected from hazards in the workplace is of paramount importance."
Work-related accidents and diseases claim the lives of 2.9 million people around the world annually, amounting to over 8,000 deaths every day. The toll is enormous, both in terms of personal tragedy and economic loss. Protecting workers' safety, health and well-being is not just a moral imperative; it makes good business sense too, as a recent cost-benefit analysis carried out by the ASEAN Secretariat on OSH in the construction sector showed.
“However, for OSH protections to become a daily reality for all workers, it must be addressed alongside ILO’s other fundamental principles and rights at work relating to freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and child labour as well as ending discrimination in the world of work,” said Mr. Li.
The ILO calls on workplaces to reinforce a shared commitment to ensure that no worker is left behind, and that every individual can enjoy a safe and healthy working environment as a fundamental right.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/229083-ensuring-safety-and-health-all-workers-myanmar-fundamental-right




Date: 11 April 2023
Title: UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk condemns Myanmar attacks
Content: 11 April 2023
I am horrified by reports of today’s airstrikes by Myanmar fighter jets on a community hall in the Sagaing region, an opposition stronghold in the northwest of the country, that killed dozens of people, including women and children.
It appears schoolchildren performing dances, as well as other civilians, attending an opening ceremony at the hall in Pazi Gyi village, Kanbalu Township were among the victims. A helicopter gunship then reportedly fired on those fleeing the hall. Media reported as many as 100 people may have been killed.
Despite clear legal obligations for the military to protect civilians in the conduct of hostilities, there has been blatant disregard for the related rules of international law.
I also call on all parties to take all feasible precautions to protect the civilian population that is under their control from the effects of attacks, including by avoiding locating military objectives within or near densely populated areas.
As I have previously noted, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the military and its affiliated militias are responsible for an extremely broad range of human rights violations and abuses since 1 February 2021, some of which may constitute crimes against humanity and war crimes.
I firmly believe the international justice processes now underway will one day hold the military leadership accountable for such crimes.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/227205-un-human-rights-chief-volker-t%C3%BCrk-condemns-myanmar-attacks




Date: 11 April 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Myanmar
Content: 11 April 2023
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the attack by the Myanmar Armed Forces today in Kanbalu Township in Sagaing Region. He calls for those responsible to be held accountable.
The Secretary-General offers his deepest condolences to the families of the victims and calls for those injured to be allowed urgent medical treatment and access to assistance.
The Secretary-General condemns all forms of violence and reaffirms the primacy of protection of civilians, in accordance with international humanitarian law. He reiterates his call for the military to end the campaign of violence against the Myanmar population throughout the country, in line with Security Council resolution 2669.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/227201-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-myanmar




Date: 30 March 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Myanmar
Content: 30 March 2023
The Secretary-General is deeply concerned by reports that the Union Election Commission, appointed by the military in Myanmar, has dissolved 40 opposition parties, including the National League for Democracy (NLD) led by State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. Any attempts to undermine democratic institutions and processes will only deepen the crisis and delay the return to a fully democratic and inclusive Myanmar.
The Secretary-General renews his call on neighbouring countries and other Member States to urge the military leadership to adhere to inclusive political processes.
The Secretary-General reiterates his call for the immediate release of all arbitrarily detained prisoners, including President Win Myint and State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/225724-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 19 March 2023
Title: UNHCR statement on Bangladesh, Myanmar bilateral pilot project on Rohingya returns
Content: 19 March 2023
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is aware of the visit of a Myanmar delegation to Bangladesh to meet with a group of refugees on a bilateral pilot project between the two countries on possible returns. UNHCR is not involved in these discussions.
UNHCR’s position on returns of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar remains unchanged. In UNHCR’s assessment, conditions in Myanmar’s Rakhine State are currently not conducive to the sustainable return of Rohingya refugees. At the same time, we reiterate that every refugee has a right to return to their home country based on an informed choice, but that no refugee should be forced to do so. Bangladesh has consistently reaffirmed its commitment to voluntary and sustainable repatriation since the onset of the current crisis.
In support of efforts to preserve the right to return, UNHCR considers consultation of and dialogue with Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh by all parties in relation to the conditions in Myanmar’s Rakhine State as important to enable refugees to make an informed choice about return and build confidence amongst the community.  This is particularly important as many refugees have reiterated that they do hope to go home to Myanmar as soon as conditions allow.
Following the events of August 2017, UNHCR has also consistently encouraged Myanmar to expeditiously verify the previous residence in Myanmar of refugees in Bangladesh, as part of efforts to lift any administrative obstacles to return when the refugees decide to do so.
UNHCR therefore supports efforts that could lead to the verification of all refugees and pave the way for eventual return. This most recently included providing logistical support to members of the Myanmar delegation to cross into Bangladesh for the technical verification process.
UNHCR will continue to work with Bangladesh and Myanmar to ensure that Rohingya refugees maintain the right to return when they choose to do so, based on a fully informed and voluntary decision. UNHCR will also support efforts to create conditions that would be conducive to the sustainable return of Rohingya refugees in Myanmar’s Rakhine State.
In Bangladesh, UNHCR will continue to support building the skills and capacities of refugees to facilitate their eventual return and sustainable reintegration in Myanmar. The 2023 Joint Response Plan for the Rohingya Humanitarian Crisis in Bangladesh was recently launched and UNHCR calls upon the international community’s continued robust support for this appeal which is currently 10 per cent funded.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/223904-unhcr-statement-bangladesh-myanmar-bilateral-pilot-project-rohingya-returns




Date: 08 March 2023
Title: ILO calls on workplaces to accelerate action against violence and harassment
Content: 08 March 2023
With a growth in work in digital spaces, workplaces must take action to tackle online violence and harassment and implement the ILO’s Violence and Harassment Convention.
YANGON, Myanmar - In marking International Women’s Day today, the ILO Myanmar Liaison Officer, Donglin Li, called on employers to step up action to prevent violence and harassment in workplaces.

The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent military takeover in Myanmar has amplified human vulnerability and exposure to online violence and harassment, particularly against women. With a growth in the number of workers who are also teleworking from home and using digital platforms, there is an increasing risk of online violence and harassment through social media and online meeting applications.

“Today is an opportunity to remind workplaces that violence and harassment must be eliminated in all places where people work, including digital spaces. It is incumbent on employers to ensure that digital spaces are safe," said Donglin Li, ILO Myanmar Liaison Officer.

The adoption of the Violence and Harassment Convention (No 190)  in 2019 marked an important milestone as it is the first international treaty to reflect a right to a world of work free from violence and harassment. The Convention recognises the changing nature of work by covering people who work from home and communications enabled by information and communication technologies.

With reference to the ILO Violence and Harassment Convention (No. 190), a guide  has been developed for employers focusing on general principles for the prevention and management of violence and harassment at work. It provides essential information on why employers need to take action and how to address, prevent and respond it.
More information about ILO Convention 190 can be found at www.ilo.org/c190>
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/223147-ilo-calls-workplaces-accelerate-action-against-violence-and-harassment




Date: 03 March 2023
Title: Military’s ‘four cuts’ doctrine drives perpetual human rights crisis in Myanmar, says UN report
Content: 03 March 2023
GENEVA – Myanmar’s military has created a perpetual human rights crisis through the continuous use of violence, including the killing, arbitrary arrest, torture and enforced disappearance of anti-coup opponents, a report published by the UN Human Rights Office said today.
“Two years after the military launched a coup, the generals have embarked on a scorched earth policy in an attempt to stamp out opposition,” the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Volker Türk, said.
“Tragically, regional and global efforts for peace and restraint have largely fallen on deaf ears. The military, emboldened by continuous and absolute impunity, has consistently shown disregard for international obligations and principles. Urgent, concrete action is needed to end this festering catastrophe.”
The report echoed calls by the Security Council and ASEAN for, among other things, an immediate halt to the violence, the release of all those arbitrarily detained, accountability, and unhindered humanitarian access.
The report documents a litany of human rights abuses from 1 February 2022 to 31 January 2023, accompanied by a sharp rise in violence especially in the north-western and south-eastern parts of Myanmar.
It cites credible sources as having verified the deaths of at least 2,940, and 17,572 arrests by the military and its affiliates since the coup. Nearly 80 percent of the country’s 330 townships have been impacted by armed clashes.
The military employs its so-called four-cuts approach - including through indiscriminate airstrikes and artillery shelling, razing villages to displace civilian populations, and denial of humanitarian access - to cut off non-State organized armed groups and other anti-military armed elements from access to food, finances, intelligence and recruits.
Among the numerous incidents of airstrikes, on 16 September - in Let Yet Kone village, Tabayin Township, Sagaing - four helicopters opened fire on a school killing at least six children and injuring nine others. After some 60 soldiers deployed from helicopters to the ground, they reportedly raided the village, executing a school technician and five villagers before arresting wounded children and teachers.
In another incident, on 20 October, an airstrike against a newly opened hospital in Man Yu Gyi village, Banmauk Township, Sagaing, killed one woman and injured five others. A source reported that the hospital had been inaugurated a day earlier and victims were all volunteers at the facility.
One of the most frequently used tactics by the military is the systematic and widespread burning of villages and dwellings. Consistent with their modus operandi documented over decades, including in Kachin in 2011 and Rakhine in 2017, UN reports indicated that nearly 39,000 houses nationwide have been burnt or destroyed in military operations since February 2022, representing a more than 1,000-fold increase compared to 2021.
Sagaing was the most affected region, accounting for over 25,500 homes. In an incident on 1 May 2022 in Ah Shey See, Kale Township, Sagaing, satellite images suggest the burning of almost the entire village with 621 structures destroyed. Satellite imagery coupled with interview reports suggest that between 16 and 28 September in Taze Township, Sagaing, the military destroyed 458 houses and damaged another 319 across eight villages during a series of raids and attacks.
The military’s mismanagement of the economy has provoked an economic crisis for much of the population, resulting in the doubling of poverty rates compared to March 2020. Nearly half of the population now lives in poverty, and rural populations are reported to be at risk of starvation as the military imposes further restrictions on access to areas affected by violence and conflict. Compounding the situation, main supply routes and waterways across the country have been blocked, preventing humanitarian actors from reaching 17.6 million people in need.
“The military has also adopted rules, including martial law, intended to target anti-coup opposition and severely restrict the civic space that had significantly contributed to Myanmar’s democratic transition,” Türk said.
“Across Myanmar, people are continuously exposed to violations and crimes, including killings, enforced disappearances, displacement, torture, arbitrary arrests, and sexual violence. There are reasonable grounds to believe that the military and its affiliated militias continue to be responsible for most violations, some of which may constitute crimes against humanity and war crimes,” the UN Human Rights Chief said.
To read the full report, click here.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/221706-military%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%98four-cuts%E2%80%99-doctrine-drives-perpetual-human-rights-crisis-myanmar-says-un-report




Date: 23 February 2023
Title: OIC ASG for Political Affairs and UN Special Envoy on Myanmar discuss the possibility of holding joint international conference to upscale education for Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh and the region, reinforcing calls for urgent international support
Content: 23 February 2023
JEDDAH, SAUDI ARABIA – The Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer visited the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Headquarters in Saudi Arabia on 20 February and was received by H.E. Mr. Yousef Al-Dobeay, Assistant Secretary General for Political Affairs, to discuss the Special Envoy’s proposal of holding a joint international conference this year in partnership between the OIC and the UN aimed at establishing and enhancing practical and longer-term pathways to upscale educational benefits to both Rohingya refugees and host communities.
The ASG appreciated the UN Special Envoy’s practical approach at a time when concrete solutions were urgently needed and assured her of full cooperation and support from the OIC General Secretariat. He reaffirmed OIC’s firm support for the Rohingya and called for the international community to take more responsibility to ensure the protection of basic rights, including the right to full citizenship, and to create conducive conditions for their voluntary, safe and dignified return. He expressed great concern about the deteriorating security, human rights and humanitarian situation in Myanmar and its adverse consequences for the Rohingya.
The ASG underscored that the Rohingya issue has been a constant item on the agenda of OIC with full Member State support and further apprised about the status of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) case filed by The Gambia, on behalf of OIC, against Myanmar.
The UN Special Envoy highlighted while it has been more than five years since the forced mass exodus from Rakhine State, the Rohingya continue to suffer desperate hardship, including in the recent announcement of ration cuts for Rohingya refugees resulting from a severe funding shortfall amid competing world crises.
The UN Special Envoy underlined that violence and constant fear from an uncertain future because of the lack of progress on addressing the root causes of marginalization has led Rohingya refugees to undertake dangerous sea journeys, with the past year being one of the deadliest. She highlighted interviews conducted with mothers, young women and youth from rescued boats all pointed to a single message: they want a future and education. In this context, she reinforced education is a powerful tool to transform lives, avoid a “lost generation” and enable the Rohingya to become leaders and contributors upon their return to Myanmar.
The Special Envoy reinforced the current situation is unsustainable and called for greater urgency and responsibility-sharing, recognizing Bangladesh’s immense generosity in shouldering a disproportionate responsibility. While the conflict and instability make achieving conditions for safe and voluntary return difficult, there are clear areas now where meaningful progress can be made. In this regard, the ASG expressed his appreciation for her ideas and initiatives aimed at improving the conditions of the Rohingya refugees, indicating that consultations will be held with OIC Member States on this matter.
Both sides renewed their commitment to remain constructively engaged on the issue of the Rohingya.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/220495-oic-asg-political-affairs-and-un-special-envoy-myanmar-discuss-possibility-holding-joint




Date: 31 January 2023
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY: As Myanmar crisis enters third year, Special Envoy Heyzer urgently calls for international unity on humanitarian aid, stance on elections and civilian protection
Content: 31 January 2023
BANGKOK – The Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer today highlighted key areas for concrete action where greater regional and international unity can support a Myanmar-led process to end the violence and suffering and help Myanmar return to the path of democracy guided by the will of the people. In her urgent call, the Special Envoy focused on humanitarian aid without discrimination and through all available channels, a unified position on the military’s plans for elections, and protection of civilians including both people inside Myanmar and refugees.
Over the past two years, the military’s disruption of Myanmar’s democratic transition has inflicted enormous damage on the country and people, and led to a multidimensional crisis spanning severe humanitarian, human rights and socio-economic consequences with serious regional ramifications. As of the end of last year, 15.2 million people were food insecure, more than 1.5 million internally displaced and an estimated 34,000 civilian structures had been destroyed since the military takeover. The Rohingya people in refugee camps and those remaining in the country, as well as other marginalized communities, are at heightened risk with 2022 marking one of the deadliest years for people forced to undertake perilous sea journeys.
The Special Envoy renewed the United Nations’ solidarity with the people of Myanmar and the need for protection of all communities, which the United Nations Secretary-General reinforced in his recent statement. She reiterated the Secretary-General’s concern regarding the military’s stated intention to hold elections, which threatens to worsen the violence and instability in the absence of inclusive political dialogue and conditions that permit citizens to freely exercise their political rights without fear or intimidation.
The Special Envoy urgently calls for greater unity and commitment among the international community in three key areas:
First, the international community, and particularly donors and Myanmar’s neighbours, must come together with humanitarian actors including local humanitarian networks to scale up urgently needed assistance to all those in need without discrimination and through all available channels. A commitment to increase levels of cross-border aid, along with more flexible banking and reporting rules, will facilitate humanitarian support to people most in need.
Second, the international community must forge a stronger unified position regarding the military’s potential elections which will fuel greater violence, prolong the conflict and make the return to democracy and stability more difficult.
Third, the international community must implement measures to increase protection for civilians inside Myanmar as well as for Myanmar refugees in the wider region. Such measures could include an on-the-ground monitoring mechanism as part of the implementation of ASEAN’s Five-Point Consensus and its commitment to stop the violence in Myanmar, and regional frameworks for the protection of refugees and forcibly displaced people.
“It is inconceivable any form of peaceful and democratic transition can be initiated by those perpetrating harm on their own citizens,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “The violence has to stop, including the aerial bombings and burning of civilian infrastructure along with military’s ongoing arrests of political leaders, civil society actors and journalists.”
Guided by her ongoing consultations with women and youth, ethnic, political and community leaders, and refugee representatives, the Special Envoy is focusing on the following four areas: an Inclusive Humanitarian Forum; upscaling access to education for Rohingya refugees and host communities; regional frameworks for the protection of refugees and forcibly displaced people; and advancing the Women, Peace and Security agenda in Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/217185-media-advisory-myanmar-crisis-enters-third-year-special-envoy-heyzer-urgently-calls




Date: 30 January 2023
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 30 January 2023
The Secretary-General welcomes the 21 December 2022 adoption of Security Council Resolution 2669 (2022) as an important step and underlines the urgency for strengthened international unity.  As called for by the Security Council, the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy will coordinate closely with the new Special Envoy of the ASEAN Chair to engage intensively with all relevant parties in Myanmar to achieve an end to the violence and to support a return to democracy.
 
The Secretary-General is concerned by the military’s stated intention to hold elections amid intensifying aerial bombardment and burning of civilian houses, along with ongoing arrests, intimidation and harassment of political leaders, civil society actors and journalists. Without conditions that permit the people of Myanmar to freely exercise their political rights, the proposed polls risk exacerbating instability. 
 
The United Nations is committed to staying in Myanmar and addressing the multiple vulnerabilities arising from the military’s actions since February 2021. This requires full and unhindered access to all affected communities as well as prioritizing the safety and security of the United Nations agencies and its partners.  The Secretary-General renews his call for neighboring countries and other Member States to urge the military leadership to respect the will and needs of the people of Myanmar and adhere to democratic norms.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/217182-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 27 January 2023
Title: Two years after coup, Myanmar faces unimaginable regression, says UN Human Rights Chief
Content: 27 January 2023
GENEVA – Two years after the Myanmar military launched a coup against the democratically-elected government, the country has sunk deeper than ever into crisis and has undergone a wholesale regression in human rights, UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk said today.
“By nearly every feasible measurement, and in every area of human rights – economic, social and cultural, as much as civil and political – Myanmar has profoundly regressed,” he said, reflecting on the spiralling crisis since the attempted coup of 1 February 2021.
“Despite clear legal obligations for the military to protect civilians in the conduct of hostilities, there has been consistent disregard for the related rules of international law. Far from being spared, civilians have been the actual targets of attacks – victims of targeted and indiscriminate artillery barrages and air strikes, extrajudicial executions, the use of torture, and the burning of whole villages.”
“At this somber time, I want to acknowledge the courage of all those whose lives have been lost in the struggle for freedom and dignity in Myanmar, and the continuing pain and suffering of their families and loved ones.”
According to credible sources at least 2,890 people have died at the hands of the military and others working with them, of whom at least 767 were initially taken into custody. This is almost certainly an underestimation of the number of civilians killed as a result of military action. A staggering further 1.2 million people have been internally displaced, and over 70,000 have left the country - joining over one million others, including the bulk of the country’s Rohingya Muslim population, who fled sustained persecution and attacks over the past decades.
Credible information indicates that over 34,000 civilian structures, including homes, clinics, schools and places of worship, have been burned over the past two years. Myanmar’s economy has collapsed with nearly half of the population now living below the poverty line.
Since the coup was launched, the military has imprisoned the democratically elected leadership of the country and, in subsequent months, detained over 16,000 others – most of whom face specious charges in military-controlled courts, in flagrant breach of due process and fair trial rights, linked to their refusal to accept the military’s actions.
“There must be a way out of this catastrophic situation, which sees only deepening human suffering and rights violations on a daily basis,” said Türk. “Regional leaders, who engaged the military leadership through ASEAN, agreed a Five-Point Consensus that Myanmar’s generals have treated with disdain.”
“Two of the critical conditions that were agreed - to cease all violence and to allow humanitarian access - have not been met. In fact, we have seen the opposite. Violence has spiralled out of control and humanitarian access has been severely restricted.”
The High Commissioner pointed to other measures that would be crucial to a political foundation for resolving the crisis: the release of all political prisoners, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President U Win Myint, as called for by the UN Security Council; inclusive dialogue with all parties -- involving both the ASEAN Chair and the UN Special Envoy; and allowing the UN Human Rights Office meaningful access to the country to monitor the situation independently and impartially.
“Restoring respect for human rights is a key to ending this crisis, to end this situation where Myanmar’s generals are trying to prop up through brute force a decades-old system in which they answer to no-one but themselves,” said Türk.
“Those responsible for the daily attacks against civilians and the human rights violations must be held accountable. The military needs to be brought under real, effective civilian oversight. This will be difficult to achieve, but these elements are critical to restoring any semblance of democratic rule, security and stability to the country.”
In its first year of independence, Myanmar was among the first Member States of the United Nations to vote in favour of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Sadly, as we mark 75 years since the Declaration’s adoption, the military is actively engaged in violating its fundamental values, principles and rights enshrined in it,” the High Commissioner said.
“How can a military that purports to defend the country have brought their own people – from all parts of Myanmar’s rich and diverse society – to such a point of desperation?”
“Last month, the Security Council united to adopt a path-breaking resolution that demanded an immediate end to the violence, among other urgent steps. Now it is time for the world to come together to take common actions to stop the killing, protect the people of Myanmar, and ensure respect for their universal human rights.”
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/216805-two-years-after-coup-myanmar-faces-unimaginable-regression-says-un-human-rights-chief




Date: 27 January 2023
Title: UNODC Report – major opium economy expansion is underway in Myanmar
Content: 27 January 2023
Bangkok (Thailand) – The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) opium survey for Myanmar has found that cultivation has increased significantly, reversing the downward trend of 2014 to 2020.
The report announced today “Myanmar Opium Survey 2022: Cultivation, Production and Implications” has analysed data collected during the first full growing season since the military takeover, showing an increase of 33% in cultivation area to 40,100 hectares, and an 88% increase in potential yield to 790 metric tonnes. Following a moderate increase in cultivation area of 2% and yield of 4% during the 2021 season, the 2022 results confirm a significant expansion is underway of Myanmar’s opium economy.
UNODC Regional Representative Jeremy Douglas remarked, “economic, security and governance disruptions that followed the military takeover of February 2021 have converged, and farmers in remote often conflict prone areas in northern Shan and border states have had little option but to move back to opium.”
The most significant increases were registered in Shan State where cultivation went up 39%, followed by Chin and Kayah states which increased 14% and 11%, while cultivation in Kachin rose a moderate 3%. The average estimated opium yield also increased by 41% to 19.8 kg/ha – the highest value since UNODC started measuring it in 2002 – pointing to increasingly sophisticated farming practices and availability of fertilizers.
The average price paid to farmers increased by 69% in 2022 to about US$280/kg even as the supply surged, demonstrating the attractiveness of opium as a crop and commodity, and strong expanding demand as the Golden Triangle opium and heroin trade appears to be reconnecting to the global market. Combined with higher production, farmers earned more than twice as much from opium as in the previous year, although the jump in income did not necessarily translate directly into purchasing power as the country has experienced soaring inflation, a devalued currency, and increasing costs of fertilizers and fuel.
The increase in opium has taken place at the same time that the production of synthetic drugs has continued to expand, with the drug economy in the country and surrounding region generating substantial profits.  The value of opium in Myanmar ranges up to US$2 billion, with the regional heroin trade valued at approximately US$10 billion.
Representative Douglas added, “the growth we are witnessing in the drug business is directly connected to the crisis the country is facing. The impact on the region is profound, and the country’s neighbours need to assess and candidly address the situation, and they will need to consider some difficult options.”
Solutions need to take into account the challenges and vulnerabilities faced by people living in traditional opium-cultivating areas, including isolation and conflict. UNODC works with these realities in-mind, supporting communities and farmers to strengthen local livelihoods that can compete with the opium economy.
“At the end of the day, opium cultivation is really about economics, and it cannot be resolved by destroying crops which only escalates vulnerabilities,” commented Benedikt Hofmann, UNODC Country Manager for Myanmar. He added, “Without alternatives and economic stability it is likely that opium cultivation and production will continue to expand.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/217122-unodc-report-%E2%80%93-major-opium-economy-expansion-underway-myanmar




Date: 06 January 2023
Title: Myanmar: Political detainees
Content: 06 January 2023
Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights: Jeremy Laurence
Location: Geneva
The release of political prisoners in Myanmar is not only a relief to those unfairly detained, but also their families. Importantly, however, we take this opportunity to call for the release of the thousands of others who remain in detention for opposing military rule. Even as news emerged about the amnesty to mark the country's independence day, we continued to receive reports of people being detained for opposing military rule, many of whom have been subjected to torture and ill-treatment. Such detentions are not only intended to silence the junta’s critics, but are also designed to instil fear.
As we mark the 75th anniversary this year of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the High Commissioner has called for an end to arbitrary detention once and for all. This week he called on governments and all detaining authorities globally to put the milestone Declaration into action by granting an amnesty, pardon or by simply releasing all those detained for exercising their rights.
The pathway out of Myanmar’s crisis is not by locking people up – it is by allowing them to freely, fully, and effectively participate in political life.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/214578-myanmar-political-detainees




Date: 19 December 2022
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY: Special Envoy Heyzer builds on partnership with OIC for urgent and  sustainable support for the Rohingya
Content: 19 December 2022
BANGKOK – Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer today called for immediate and concrete international support for the Rohingya people during her briefing of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC)’s Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission.
The Special Envoy addressed the Commission on the hardship and vulnerable conditions of Rohingya remaining in Myanmar’s Rakhine State as well as over 1 million Rohingya refugees and other displaced people in Bangladesh and neighbouring countries, reiterating the United Nations’ gratitude to Bangladesh for showing humanity and stressing the urgency for greater responsibility-sharing.
Special Envoy Heyzer called on countries in the region to urgently rescue and safely disembark hundreds of Rohingya men, women and children, who continue to face desperate circumstances adrift in the Andaman Sea and Strait of Malacca. The Special Envoy will continue to urge ASEAN to develop a regional protection framework for refugees and forcefully displaced persons.
With Indonesia as incoming ASEAN Chair, Special Envoy Heyzer looks forward to working more closely with the OIC and ASEAN, focusing on education and skills development as powerful tools to transform the lives of Rohingya refugees and benefit host communities.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/212585-media-advisory-special-envoy-heyzer-builds-partnership-oic-urgent-and-sustainable-support




Date: 10 December 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's Message on Human Rights Day
Content: 10 December 2022
The world is facing unprecedented and interlocking challenges to human rights.
Hunger and poverty are increasing – an affront to the economic and social rights of hundreds of millions of people.
Civic space is shrinking.
Media freedom and the safety of journalists are in dangerous decline in almost every region of the world.
Trust in institutions is evaporating, especially among young people.
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased levels of violence against women and girls.
Racism, intolerance and discrimination are running rampant.
New human rights challenges are emerging from the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
And we are only beginning to grasp the threat posed to human rights by some new technologies.
These trying times call for a reignition of our commitment to all human rights - civil, cultural, economic, political and social.
The Call to Action I launched in 2020 positions human rights at the centre of solutions to the challenges we face.
This vision is reflected in my report on Our Common Agenda, which calls for a renewed social contract, anchored in human rights.
The 75th anniversary of the landmark Universal Declaration on Human Rights next year must be an opportunity for action.
I urge Member States, civil society, the private sector and others to put human rights at the heart of efforts to reverse today’s damaging trends.
Human rights are the foundation for human dignity, and the cornerstone of peaceful, inclusive, fair, equal and prosperous societies.
They are a unifying force and a rallying cry.
They reflect the most fundamental thing we share – our common humanity.
On this Human Rights Day, we reaffirm the universality and indivisibility of all rights, as we stand up for human rights for all.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/210724-secretary-generals-message-human-rights-day




Date: 07 December 2022
Title: European Union Supports WFP’s Response to Rising Food Insecurity in Myanmar
Content: 07 December 2022
YANGON – The European Union (EU) has contributed EUR 6.5 million to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) towards its humanitarian assistance  in Myanmar, where some 15 million people are facing moderate or severe food insecurity.
High costs of fuel and food – the latter has risen by 62 percent year-on-year – are putting staples like rice and cooking oil increasingly out of reach for many. Disruptions to supply chains and markets due to continuing conflict and displacement in parts of the country are threatening the day-to-day food security of millions more.
Working with communities and local non-governmental organizations on the ground, WFP will provide life-saving food, cash and nutrition support for the most vulnerable families, including those in areas affected by conflict. More than 800,000 people in the southeast, northwest and border areas, as well as impoverished peri-urban Yangon, will be reached thanks to the continued EU humanitarian support. The funding was made through the EU’s Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations, also known as DG ECHO.
“Conflict and food insecurity unfortunately always go hand in hand,” said Stephen Anderson, WFP Country Director and Representative in Myanmar. “This timely EU humanitarian funding will help WFP sustain our assistance to families uncertain of where their next meal will come from. WFP food has been a lifeline for millions of people and will remain to be in the foreseeable future.”
Since the start of 2022, WFP has reached nearly 3 million people with food, nutrition and livelihood support across the country. With access to populations in greatest need remaining largely constrained, the EU and WFP call for uninterrupted and sustained access, particularly to those uprooted by recent violence in Chin, Kayah, Magway, and Sagaing. It is imperative that the international community further steps up its financial support for the people of Myanmar.
Photos are available here.
#                                         #                                         #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change. Follow WFP on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific.

About EU Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid:
The European Union and its Member States are among the leading donors of humanitarian aid in the world. Relief assistance is an expression of European solidarity with people in need all around the world. It aims to save lives, prevent and alleviate human suffering, and safeguard the integrity and human dignity of populations affected by natural disasters and man-made crises.
Through its Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations department, the European Union helps millions of victims of conflict and disasters every year. With headquarters in Brussels and a global network of field offices, the EU provides assistance to the most vulnerable people on the basis of humanitarian needs.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/210442-european-union-supports-wfp%E2%80%99s-response-rising-food-insecurity-myanmar




Date: 02 December 2022
Title: Myanmar: UN Human Rights Chief alarmed at death sentences by secretive military courts
Content: 02 December 2022
GENEVA – UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk on Friday expressed shock that more than 130 people have now been sentenced to death by military courts behind closed-doors in Myanmar since the military launched a coup last year, following fresh convictions this week.
At least seven university students were sentenced to death by a military court on 30 November. There are reports of as many as four additional death sentences being issued against youth activists yesterday. The UN Human Rights Office is seeking clarification of those sentences.
“The military continues to hold proceedings in secretive courts in violation of basic principles of fair trial and contrary to core judicial guarantees of independence and impartiality,” Türk said, calling for the suspension of all executions and a return to a moratorium on death penalty.
“Military courts have consistently failed to uphold any degree of transparency contrary to the most basic due process or fair trial guarantees.”
In July, the military carried out four executions, the first in approximately 30 years. A former lawmaker, a democracy activist, and two others were executed despite calls from the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the international community to desist.
Close to 1,700 detainees of the nearly 16,500 who have been arrested for opposing the military’s coup have been tried and convicted in secret by ad hoc tribunals, sometimes lasting just minutes. None have been acquitted, and often they have not had access to lawyers or their families.
The latest convictions would bring the total number of individuals sentenced to capital punishment to 139 individuals since 1 February 2021.
The actions of the military are not in keeping with the ASEAN 5-point consensus that the South-East Asia nations have just re-committed to uphold at the ASEAN summit in November, Türk said.
“By resorting to use death sentences as a political tool to crush opposition, the military confirms its disdain for the efforts by ASEAN and the international community at large to end violence and create the conditions for a political dialogue to lead Myanmar out of a human rights crisis created by the military,” the UN Human Rights Chief added.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/210147-myanmar-un-human-rights-chief-alarmed-death-sentences-secretive-military-courts




Date: 28 November 2022
Title: Myanmar: UN Human Rights Office deeply concerned by new NGO law
Content: 28 November 2022
News Release
BANGKOK – The UN Human Rights Office for South-East Asia (OHCHR) is deeply concerned about the potential negative impact on civic space and human rights of new rules regulating the registration of non-profit organizations in Myanmar.
On 28 October, the military’s so-called State Administration Council unilaterally imposed a text making registration compulsory for both national and international non-governmental organizations and associations. In purportedly repealing the 2014 Association Registration Law, these new rules introduce criminal penalties for organizations who fail to comply with punishments up to five years of imprisonment.
Since the attempted coup in February 2021 and in pursuance of their “four-cuts” strategy, the military has put in place numerous measures, including internet shutdowns in over 20 townships, eroding civic space and preventing the exercise of fundamental rights and freedom, such as freedoms of expression and association.
The military has used the national legal framework and the judiciary to crush any opposition and these new provisions add to the legal arsenal at their disposal to exert authoritarian control over Myanmar.
“Cirassment, arrest, and prosecution of anyone who opposed their coup,” said James Rodehaver, Chief of the OHCHR Myanmar Team.
“These new rules could greatly diminish what operational space is left for civic organizations to deliver essential goods and services to a population that is struggling to survive.”
In the context of ongoing fighting throughout the country, military decisions and actions have severely restricted humanitarian access limiting efforts to reach some of the estimated 1.4 million internally displaced people and millions of others affected by crisis with life-saving humanitarian aid.
Local civil society and grassroot organizations have played an increasingly crucial role in the provision of humanitarian assistance to those in need, particularly to food, health care, shelter, safe drinking water, and sanitation facilities.
Registration obligations stemming from this new military text may jeopardize all this and expose over a million people, including children and the elderly, to life-threatening risks, said Rodehaver.
“These new requirements and penalties are likely to make it more difficult for legitimate, dedicated civil society groups to get desperately needed support to those who need it most,” Rodehaver said.
“The military has an obligation to the people of Myanmar to facilitate the work of civil society and to ensure unimpeded access to communities in desperate need of assistance, not target them through bureaucratic harassment or threaten them with prosecution.”
The UN Human Rights Office calls on the military to meet their obligations under international human rights law and international humanitarian law, particularly to enhance protection of civilians, release political prisoners, and restore a political system representative of the will of the people of Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/209628-myanmar-un-human-rights-office-deeply-concerned-new-ngo-law




Date: 25 November 2022
Title: A Joint Statement of the United Nations in Myanmar
Content: 25 November 2022
“UNITE! Activism to End Violence against Women and Girls”
As we mark the launch of the Commemoration of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, women and girls in Myanmar are sounding a loud alarm over their heightened vulnerability, stressing that the weight of gender-based violence, combined with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the ongoing conflict, are eroding their sense of hope and resilience.
Gender-based violence (GBV) is a gross violation of human rights and its roots are entrenched in social norms in all countries. Globally, an estimated one in every three women experience physical or sexual abuse in her lifetime, and one in every four adolescent girls aged 15–19 years, has been abused by an intimate partner or husband. At its worst, gender-based violence can result in death, like in situations where a woman or girl is murdered by family members for bringing dishonour upon the family name or prestige (honour killing). Survivors of gender-based violence suffer short and long-term consequences to their physical and mental health.
The root causes of gender-based violence are embedded in gender-inequality and an unequal power balance between women and men.
The Myanmar Demographic and Health Survey (2015-2016) reported that 17 percent of ever married women aged between 15 and 49 have experienced some forms of intimate partner violence in their lifetime, of which 37 percent are survivors of physical injuries. Among women who have ever experienced sexual violence, 7 out of 10 have never sought help nor told anyone. However, evidence show that gender-based violence is often under-reported and intensifies during times of crisis when resources are limited, especially against women and girls.
The ongoing political, socioeconomic and protection crisis in Myanmar is fuelling the risk of gender-based violence and increasing humanitarian needs. In this very difficult situation, all women and girls are entitled to unconditional protection and enjoyment of their rights without any form of discrimination.
Through the United Nations’ work in other crisis situations, we know that women, children, and persons with disabilities, are particularly vulnerable as they are exposed to significant risks of violence. Working with civil society organisations, the United Nations in Myanmar is promoting the collection of sex, age and disability disaggregated data to ensure holistic and responsive interventions are delivered on time.  Currently, over 1.3 million people, including those with disabilities, have been displaced, the majority of which are women and children. Factors such as high exposure to gender-based violence, poverty, displacement, restrictions on movement, and limited access to healthcare, including sexual and reproductive services, are rendering women and girls increasingly vulnerable to many other risks.
The United Nations continues to prioritise delivering principled humanitarian assistance to all affected communities, including internally-displaced people, migrants, the LGBTIQA+ community, women and girls with disability, people living with HIV and AIDS and those affected by COVID-19.
The culture of silence among survivors of violence must be broken in Myanmar to ensure that survivors report cases to local authorities, have access to gender-friendly justice, healthcare, social protection and Mental Health and Psychosocial services.
We call on all humanitarian actors to listen to survivors, and to ensure that essential services, including Women and Girls’ Centers and Safe Houses and specialized services such as case management, receive adequate funds to continue and scale up.
This can only be achieved in close partnership with women’s civil society organizations, community-based organizations, national and international NGOs and donors in Myanmar and donors. Collaborating with, and sustaining funding for women’s organizations and civil society organisations (CSOs), who are at the forefront of responding, and delivering life-saving gender-based violence services at grassroots level, is critical. Many of the Organisations that provide first line of life-saving GBV services are local CSOs. Unfortunately the recently announced Organisation Registration Law will not only negatively impact on their ability to provide such services but may even threaten their very existence.
In Myanmar, the United Nations remains firmly committed to promoting building community-based prevention systems through intensified awareness-raising and social behaviour change programmes, engaging men and boys, community leaders and other local actors.
Together, we re-affirm our strong commitment to stay and deliver life-saving services that address the urgent needs of women and girls. On the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, we call on all stakeholders and agents of change to break the silence to end violence against women and girls, and ensure that all survivors can have access to life-saving services.
Let’s All UNITE and ACT to End Violence against Women and Girls Now!
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/208776-joint-statement-united-nations-myanmar




Date: 19 November 2022
Title: UN Special Envoy Heyzer calls for release of all children and political prisoners in Myanmar
Content: 19 November 2022
BANGKOK – The Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer is encouraged by the announcement of the mass release of detainees in Myanmar and reiterates the Secretary-General’s call for the immediate release of all of those who continue to be arbitrarily detained, including President Win Myint and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi.
Special Envoy Heyzer reinforced her call for the release of all children and political prisoners who are being detained in prisons or other facilities in Myanmar, which she conveyed during her mission to Nay Pyi Taw in August along with the requested release of Australian economist Sean Turnell, who was freed during the recent mass release.
The Special Envoy appreciates continued support from Member States including in the UN Security Council and UN General Assembly that have echoed calls for the immediate release of all political detainees and strongly condemned arbitrary detention, arrest and politically motivated convictions, sentencing and executions, including of opposition activists.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/208032-un-special-envoy-heyzer-calls-release-all-children-and-political-prisoners-myanmar




Date: 26 October 2022
Title: Forced returns to Myanmar must stop immediately, says Türk
Content: 26 October 2022
GENEVA - UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk today called for a moratorium on any forced returns of refugees and migrants to Myanmar, given its dire human rights crisis.
This followed news that Malaysia deported two Myanmar nationals who had sought protection through the UN Refugee Agency, on 6 October. On the same day, more than 100 other Myanmar nationals, some of whom had serious protection concerns, were also deported without any adequate assessment of their situation as required by international law.
Since the beginning of the military coup on 1 February 2021, at least 70,000 people have fled Myanmar, and more than one million remain internally displaced from their homes. A further one million Muslim Rohingya refugees have found refuge in Bangladesh. This adds to the millions of Myanmar migrants who have sought economic opportunities in other countries of the region over past years, many with irregular status.
“With rising levels of violence and instability, and the collapse of the Myanmar economy and social protection systems, this is simply not the time to be returning anyone to Myanmar,” Türk said.  “This is especially the case for anyone with specific protection concerns, such as political activists or military defectors, who are at grave risk upon return.”
The High Commissioner called on Malaysia and other States to ensure that no individual is forcibly deported to Myanmar and that any Myanmar national considered for return is provided with due procedural guarantees including an individual assessment of their situation in line with international norms and standards. Returns that take place from indefinite detention or detention in manifestly inadequate conditions are unlikely to be truly voluntary and should be avoided.
Since February 2021, the UN Human Rights Office has documented numerous cases of reprisals or punishment of Myanmar nationals who have returned to the country from abroad. People who have fled the country and considered by the military to be opposed to their coup are at risk of torture in detention and the death penalty.
Under international law, principles of non-refoulement prohibit returning people to a country where they are at real risk of serious harm upon return, including persecution, torture, ill treatment or other grave human rights violations.
“It is essential that in light of the prevailing situation in Myanmar, now more than ever, that States do not return people to suffering and danger, and provide them with a secure legal status while their country remains in crisis,” Türk said.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/204745-forced-returns-myanmar-must-stop-immediately-says-t%C3%BCrk




Date: 25 October 2022
Title: UNHCR deplores continued deportation of Myanmar asylum-seekers from Malaysia
Content: 25 October 2022
This is a summary of what was said by UNHCR spokesperson Shabia Mantoo – to whom quoted text may be attributed – at today's press briefing at the Palais des Nations in Geneva.
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is seriously concerned over the continued deportation by Malaysia of asylum-seekers from Myanmar back to their country, placing lives at risk.
UNHCR has received multiple disturbing reports of these forced returns of Myanmar nationals from Malaysia, since April this year, including people seeking international protection. In the last two months alone, hundreds of Myanmar nationals are reported to have been sent back against their will by the authorities.
Such deportations of refugees and asylum-seekers amount to refoulement.
The latest incident is reported to have happened over the weekend. According to information received by UNHCR, an asylum-seeker from Myanmar was deported on 21 October from detention despite UNHCR interventions.
UNHCR continues to call on Malaysia to immediately stop the forced returns of Myanmar nationals seeking safety from serious harm.
Sending them back to Myanmar exposes them to harm and danger.
People fleeing Myanmar must be allowed access to territory to seek asylum and be protected against refoulement. Myanmar nationals already abroad should not be forced to return when seeking international protection.
The principle of non-refoulement is a cornerstone of international law and is binding on all states.
The situation in Myanmar is forcing people to flee to seek safety within the country and across borders.
UNHCR appeals to the Malaysian authorities to abide by their international legal obligations and ensure the full respect for the rights of people in need of international protection.
We reiterate our call on states in the region to continue offering protection to Myanmar nationals fleeing for safety. This also includes ending the practice of indefinite detention of asylum-seekers and refugees from Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/204746-unhcr-deplores-continued-deportation-myanmar-asylum-seekers-malaysia




Date: 25 October 2022
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY: Special Envoy Heyzer urges Regional Framework for Refugee Protection and end to forced returns
Content: 25 October 2022
NEW YORK – Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer today expressed concern at the recent forced return of Myanmar nationals, including asylum-seekers and people whose lives are in danger after being detained in Yangon, while urging countries in the region to end forced returns and jointly develop a Regional Framework for Refugee Protection.
The Special Envoy also strongly condemned recent attacks including military airstrikes at the weekend that reportedly killed many civilians at a celebration in Kachin State.
During her briefing of the United Nations General Assembly Third Committee, the Special Envoy introduced the Report of the Secretary-General on the situation in Myanmar and provided updates on recent events including the worsening violence in Rakhine State. The General Assembly allocates to the Third Committee agenda items relating to social, humanitarian affairs and human rights issues.
“The recent forced return of Myanmar nationals underlines the urgency of a coordinated ASEAN response to address shared regional challenges caused by the conflict,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “Recognizing that many more people will be forced to flee the violence, I will continue to urge ASEAN to develop a regional framework for refugees and forcefully displaced persons.”
The Special Envoy emphasized that all Myanmar nationals who have been forcibly returned must be treated in accordance with international law and reiterated the Secretary-General’s call for all political prisoners in Myanmar to be released, which the Security Council and General Assembly have also urged.
Ahead of the ASEAN Summit in November, Special Envoy Heyzer called on ASEAN Member States to urgently discuss a Regional Framework for Refugee Protection that respects the principle of non-refoulement, protects human rights and serves the shared interests of countries in the region. The Special Envoy continues to work closely with the ASEAN Special Envoy to engage all stakeholders in an inclusive Myanmar-led process to return to the democratic transition as well as a coordinated response supported by the international community to address the regional implications of the conflict.
As Myanmar’s multidimensional crisis worsens, more than 13.2 million people are food insecure, about 40% of the population live below the poverty line and 1.3 million are internally displaced. Although the worsening violence leaves little room for talks about de-escalation, the Special Envoy highlighted concrete steps to reduce people’s suffering including the regional framework for refugees and forcefully displaced persons, education and skills development to prepare Rohingya refugees for their return to Myanmar, the proposed Inclusive Forum for engagement to facilitate protection and humanitarian assistance, and the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) platform on Myanmar that she has initiated with the Foreign Minister of Indonesia.
Special Envoy Heyzer called for renewed regional and international solidarity with Rohingya refugees and other forcibly displaced people as well as host communities. She emphasized that the Rohingya and other vulnerable communities, including women and youth, must be engaged directly in discussions and decisions about their future.
Greater international support is essential for the Joint Response Plan (JRP) for the Rohingya Humanitarian Crisis in Bangladesh, which has shouldered a disproportionate burden hosting about 1 million Rohingya refugees. The 2022 JRP is currently only 49% funded.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/204705-media-advisory-special-envoy-heyzer-urges-regional-framework-refugee-protection-and-end




Date: 25 October 2022
Title: Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer: United Nations General Assembly Third Committee
Content: 25 October 2022
Distinguished Delegates,
I appreciate the opportunity to introduce the Report of the Secretary-General on the situation in Myanmar, as well as update on recent events.
As the Report details, the political, human rights and humanitarian crisis in Myanmar continues to take a catastrophic toll on the people, with serious regional implications.
More than 13.2 million people are food insecure, about 40 percent of the population is living below the poverty line and 1.3 million are internally displaced.
Military operations continue with disproportionate use of force including aerial bombings, burning of civilian structures, and the killing of civilians including children. I condemn the indiscriminate airstrikes on a celebration in Kachin State that killed large numbers of civilians days ago. The People’s Defence Forces are also accused of targeting civilians.
The plight of the Rohingya people, along with other forcefully displaced communities, remains desperate, with many seeking refuge through dangerous land and sea journeys.
The price of impunity is a grave reminder that accountability remains essential.
Since the release of the report, violence between the Arakan Army and the military in Rakhine has escalated to levels not seen since late 2020, with significant cross-border incursions, endangering all communities, harming conditions for durable return, and prolonging the burden on Bangladesh as host of about 1 million Rohingya refugees.
As the Myanmar crisis deepens, I continue to promote a coordinated international strategy, in line with my mandate, engaging all stakeholders for an inclusive Myanmar-led process to return to the democratic transition.
My first visit to Myanmar as Special Envoy in August to meet the military’s Commander-in-Chief was part of broader efforts by the UN to urgently support a return to civilian rule based on the will and needs of the people. I made six requests during the visit: ending aerial bombing and burning of civilian infrastructure; delivery of humanitarian assistance without discrimination; the release of all children and political prisoners; a moratorium on executions; the well-being of and engagement with State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi. I also highlighted Myanmar’s responsibility for creating conducive conditions for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees.
Soon after, I visited Dhaka and Cox’s Bazar on the five-year anniversary of the Rohingya’s mass displacement, where I expressed the United Nations’ appreciation for Bangladesh’s generosity and heeded Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s statements that the current situation is unsustainable.
A highlight of the visit was my discussions with women and youth in the refugee camps. They made it clear that they need to be engaged directly in discussions and decisions about their future. Their rights and protection, in particular their citizenship, freedom of movement and security, must be guaranteed, guided by the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State.
Going forward, I will continue to strengthen co-operation with ASEAN and engagement with all stakeholders. While there is little room for the de-escalation of violence or for “talks about talks” in the present zero-sum situation, there are some concrete ways to reducing the suffering of the people.
Recognizing that many more people will be forced to flee the violence, I will continue to urge ASEAN to develop a regional protection framework for refugees and forcefully displaced persons. The recent forced return of Myanmar nationals, some of whom were detained on arrival, underlines the urgency of a coordinated ASEAN response to address shared regional challenges caused by the conflict.
Education and skills development are powerful tools to prepare Rohingya refugees for their return to Myanmar, which I continue to advocate, working closely with leaders of ASEAN and neighbouring countries as well as the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.
Key Ethnic Armed Organizations and the National Unity Government have together appealed for me to convene an Inclusive Forum for engagement to facilitate protection and humanitarian assistance to ALL people in need, in observance of International Humanitarian Law.
I have also initiated a women, peace and security (WPS) platform on Myanmar with the Foreign Minister of Indonesia to amplify the needs of women affected by the conflict, and their leadership as agents of change.
To conclude, there is a new political reality in Myanmar: a people demanding change, no longer willing to accept military rule. I will continue to appeal to all governments and other key stakeholders to listen to the people and be guided by their will to prevent deeper catastrophe in the heart of Asia.
Thank you.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/204708-special-envoy-secretary-general-myanmar-noeleen-heyzer-united-nations-general-assembly-third




Date: 24 October 2022
Title: Statement by the United Nations in Myanmar on reported airstrikes in Hpakant, Kachin State
Content: 24 October 2022
(Yangon) – The United Nations (UN) in Myanmar is deeply concerned and saddened by reports of airstrikes that took place in Hpakant, Kachin State around 8:00PM on 23 October 2022. Initial reports suggest that over 100 civilians may have been affected by the bombing. Numerous fatalities have also been reported.
While the UN continues to verify the details of this attack, we offer our deepest condolences to the families and friends of all those who were killed or injured. The UN calls for those injured to be availed urgent medical treatment, as needed.
What would appear to be excessive and disproportionate use of force by security forces against unarmed civilians is unacceptable and those responsible must be held to account.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/204444-statement-united-nations-myanmar-reported-airstrikes-hpakant-kachin-state




Date: 04 October 2022
Title: Civil society organization in Myanmar wins the regional Nansen Refugee Award
Content: 04 October 2022
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency is pleased to share that Meikswe Myanmar has been selected by an independent selection committee as this year’s regional winner of the Nansen Refugee Award in the Asia region.
Meikswe Myanmar is a civil society organization operating in several states and regions in Myanmar. It serves a diverse range of vulnerable groups from people living with HIV to internally displaced people and their host communities.
Meikswe Myanmar has been named a regional winner of the Nansen Refugee Award in recognition of their longstanding commitment to aiding and empowering communities uprooted by conflict. It also acknowledges their contributions in supporting and building the capacity of local organizations to effectively respond to the needs of displaced populations and host communities.
Founded in 2004, Meikswe Myanmar – meaning Friends of Myanmar - implements a range of activities to support internally displaced people, their host communities and other vulnerable groups in close to 300 locations across six states and regions, namely Kayin, Rakhine and Shan States as well as Magway, Mandalay and Yangon Regions.
“Our value is the focus on fragile and forgotten communities that are often in hard-to-access areas, as well as minority groups,” said Naw Bway Khu, Meikswe Myanmar’s founder.
The award highlights the crucial role of local organizations in responding to growing humanitarian needs in Myanmar.
“First responders are often local communities and grassroots organizations. Rapid humanitarian action would not be possible without them”, said Hai Kyung Jun, UNHCR’s Representative in Myanmar. “Humanitarian assistance undertaken by the international aid agencies like UNHCR complements what resourceful local organizations like Meikswe Myanmar are already doing on the ground to help those in need.”
Meikswe Myanmar’s programming is centered on long-term, bottom-up philosophies of empowerment and resilience, grounded in community needs. Emphasis is placed on supporting women and girls in particular.
“Communities are a fundamental building block of society. If they have strength, knowledge, and systems that enable them to progress, our country can also develop,” said Naw Bway Khu.
Keeping to its grassroots spirit, Meikswe also maintains close partnerships with a growing network of over 80 local organizations across Myanmar, acting a bridge between them and international organizations as well as donors that can provide resources. Additionally, trainings are provided by Meikswe, so that local organizations are capacitated to mount effective emergencies responses in times of crisis.
Established in 1954, the award is named for the late Fridtjof Nansen, a Norwegian diplomat, scientist, polar explorer and humanitarian who went on to serve as the first High Commissioner for Refugees for the League of Nations and won the 1922 Nobel Peace Prize. 2022 marks the 100th anniversary of his award.
The Nansen Refugee Award is an annual award that honours individuals, groups and organizations who go above and beyond the call of duty to protect and assist forcibly displaced and stateless people. It is sponsored by the governments of Norway and Switzerland.
This year, the global winner is Angela Merkel. There are also four regional winners, including Meikswe Myanmar in Asia, as well as winners in the Africa, the Americas and the Middle East.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/201914-civil-society-organization-myanmar-wins-regional-nansen-refugee-award




Date: 20 September 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Myanmar
Content: 20 September 2022
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the attacks by Myanmar armed forces on a school in Let Yet Kone in Sagaing Region, killing at least 13 people, including 11 children.  He offers his deepest condolences to the families of the victims.
Even in times of armed conflict, schools must remain areas in which children are granted protection and a safe place to learn. Attacks on schools and hospitals in contravention of international humanitarian law also constitute one of the six grave violations against children in times of armed conflict strongly condemned by the Security Council.
The Secretary-General reiterates that, under international humanitarian law, combatants must not direct attacks against civilians, including children, or civilian objects. Perpetrators of all international crimes committed in Myanmar must be held accountable.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/200157-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 19 September 2022
Title: At least 11 schoolchildren killed in Myanmar attack
Content: 19 September 2022
YANGON - On 16 September, at least 11 children died in an air strike and indiscriminate fire in civilian areas, including a school in Tabayin Township, Sagaing Region of Myanmar.
While more details are still being verified, UNICEF offers condolences to the parents and families who lost their children.
At least 15 children from the same school are still missing. UNICEF calls for their immediate and safe release.
Schools must be safe. Children must never be attacked.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/201473-least-11-schoolchildren-killed-myanmar-attack




Date: 16 September 2022
Title: UN report calls for urgent action to halt access to revenue and arms supplies by Myanmar military
Content: 16 September 2022
GENEVA – States must do more to cut the Myanmar military’s access to revenue and arms supplies to halt its repression of the people, a report released today by the UN Human Rights Office said.
The report was requested by the Human Rights Council to follow up on earlier recommendations made by the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar (‘FFM’) on economic interests of the Myanmar military (the Tatmadaw).
Today’s report reiterates the FFM’s recommendations to impose targeted financial sanctions on the Tatmadaw and its economic interests as well as arms embargos, while at the same time highlighting that such measures must respect human rights and that efforts must be made to mitigate foreseeable socio-economic impacts. Several States continue to supply weaponry and engage in military cooperation, it states.
Since seizing control of State organs, the so-called State Administration Council has “failed to govern in meaningful and sustainable ways, instead continuing to repress and terrorize the Myanmar people,” the report says.
While some progress has been made on the FFM’s recommendations to economically isolate the Tatmadaw, there remain significant gaps, which are ever more important following the coup. Targeted measures should particularly focus on the military’s foreign currency access, said the report.
It urges the international community to step up efforts to support the people of Myanmar and to ensure the military’s financial isolation in a coordinated fashion. Appropriate sanctions should be implemented in consultation with civil society and the democratic movement, including trade unions and the National Unity Government, to calibrate their impact.
Myanmar’s military authorities are clearly prioritizing its military campaigns over the welfare of the population and economic recovery, the report said. In comparison with the previous annual Government budget, the military authorities’ 2022/23 budget increased defence spending, while reducing allocations to education, health, and social welfare.
Poverty in Myanmar has increased at least two-fold and the public health system has effectively broken down since the coup, and more than half of all school-age children have not had access to education for two academic years, the report said.
It also reported that some States and companies continue business relationships with military-owned enterprises in a number of sectors.
All businesses active in Myanmar or sourcing from the country should take steps to ensure they do not economically benefit the military, including by conducting ongoing and transparent heightened human rights due diligence, the report says.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/201835-un-report-calls-urgent-action-halt-access-revenue-and-arms-supplies-myanmar-military




Date: 25 August 2022
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY: UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy Heyzer calls for increased support for Rohingya refugees and host communities during Bangladesh mission
Content: 25 August 2022
DHAKA – On the five-year mark of the forced mass displacement of Rohingya from Myanmar’s Rakhine State, Bangladesh continues to show great generosity and leadership in hosting refugees, which requires renewed international attention and equitable burden-sharing by countries in the region and abroad, United Nations Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer said today on her four-day mission to Bangladesh.
“As the Secretary-General reiterated on this solemn occasion, following the military takeover in February 2021, the humanitarian, human rights and security situation in Myanmar has deteriorated. It is critical that the international community continue to seek comprehensive, durable and inclusive solutions to the crisis. We cannot let this become a forgotten crisis,” Special Envoy Heyzer said.
In their productive discussions, the Special Envoy thanked Her Excellency Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for her leadership and expressed the United Nations’ deep appreciation to the people and Government of Bangladesh for their immense contribution. She also highlighted Bangladesh’s pivotal role in working with ASEAN.
“The generosity of Bangladesh and host communities towards Rohingya refugees in their time of need conveys a critical need for greater international and regional commitment to burden share and ensure that the Rohingya do not become forgotten,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “I will continue to advocate for greater leadership of countries in the region in supporting Bangladesh and leveraging their influence with Myanmar to create conducive conditions for the voluntary, safe and dignified return of refugees.”
The Special Envoy highlighted the major pressures on Bangladesh as host of one of the largest refugee populations in the world, which has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change. About 1 million Rohingya refugees are still living in camps in Bangladesh, with tens of thousands more across the region, and over 140,000 internally displaced persons remaining confined in camps in Rakhine.
Driven by desperate hardship conditions, Rohingya people continue to undertake perilous land and sea journeys that expose them to criminal exploitation including human trafficking and gender-based violence.
The Special Envoy emphasized that it was ultimately Myanmar’s responsibility to establish conducive conditions for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return to Myanmar of all refugees and forcibly displaced persons. The rights and security of the Rohingya people must be guaranteed and embedded in Myanmar-led solutions towards a peaceful, democratic and inclusive future guided by the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State. In the context of grave human right violations and unmet protection needs in Myanmar, finding solutions to this crisis and addressing needs and human rights of Rohingya in Rakhine State must include the meaningful participation of those affected, especially Rohingya refugees.
During her visit to the refugee camps in Bangladesh, Special Envoy Heyzer witnessed first-hand the hard work of United Nations agencies among many actors, including civil society organisations, local NGOs and INGOs that provided critical assistance. “In this operationally challenging environment, I saw Rohingya resilience and hope, innovative and empowering activities carried out by UN agencies and partners, as well as Bangladeshi authorities’ leadership, which all come together while the refugees remain in Bangladesh and waiting for lasting solutions to their plight. The refugees in the camps shared direct accounts of the horrendous ordeals they endured as they were uprooted from their homes. They repeatedly expressed their desire to return to Myanmar in safety and dignity, and their messages were very clear – to be able to go back to their homes, to have freedom of movement and rights to citizenship.”
The Special Envoy highlighted education and vocational training as powerful tools to prepare Rohingya refugees for their return to Myanmar, enhance lifelong opportunities and equip them to contribute to a more inclusive and peaceful future.
"Generations could be affected if we fail in our obligation to protect the Rohingya and all the people of Myanmar, their fundamental rights and dignity,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “We need to look at sustainable solutions and think outside the box. This includes working with member states, regionally and internationally, to address root causes of Rohingya vulnerabilities, as compounded by their stateless status, and prepare refugees for sustainable return, as well as immediate attention to lifesaving needs and multistakeholder approaches to enhancing protection for Rohingya communities across the region.”
Based on community efforts, there have been some positive signs of improved social and economic inclusion for Rohingya people in Rakhine State, although progress is fragile and put at risk by potentially escalating violence.
The current situation requires predictable and consistent support from the international community for refugees and host communities. The 2022 Joint Response Plan for the Rohingya Humanitarian Crisis in Bangladesh, seeking over US$881 million to meet the needs of more than 1 million people, including Rohingya refugees and the most affected host communities, is so far only 49-per-cent funded.
Based on the Special Envoy’s extensive consultations with stakeholders, including Rohingya representatives, there are clear signs of unprecedented solidarity among youth across all communities to reimagine Myanmar’s future democracy, human rights and governance, in which the Rohingya are included. “The Rohingya made it clear they want to be engaged directly and meaningfully. They feel that their exclusion from discussions and decisions about their future has entrenched their marginalization,” the Special Envoy said. Women are at the center of the Special Envoy’s efforts, including through the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) Platform on Myanmar.
In her recent mission to Malaysia and meetings with Their Excellencies Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob and Foreign Minister Saifuddin Abdullah, the Special Envoy emphasized the need to keep the Rohingya high on the ASEAN and international and regional agendas, including education and vocational training opportunities that will help prepare the refugees for return. The Special Envoy has also recently consulted with the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation Contact Group on the Rohingya Crisis and briefed the United Nations General Assembly in June regarding the urgency of support for refugees and host communities.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/196371-media-advisory-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-special-envoy-heyzer-calls-increased-support-rohingya




Date: 24 August 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 24 August 2022
Today marks five years since the start of the forced mass displacement of Rohingya and other communities from Myanmar’s Rakhine State. Around one million refugees remain sheltered in Bangladesh, without immediate prospects for return, while more than 150,000 Rohingya people are still confined in camps in Rakhine.
Following the military takeover in February 2021, the humanitarian, human rights and security situation in Myanmar has deteriorated.  It is critical that the international community continue to seek comprehensive, durable and inclusive solutions to the crisis. 
 
The Secretary-General notes the unflagging aspirations for an inclusive future among the country’s many ethnic, and religious groups and underlines that the full and effective participation of the Rohingya people is an inherent part of a Myanmar-led solution to the crisis. Greater humanitarian and development access for the United Nations and its partners to affected areas is crucial.  Perpetrators of all international crimes committed in Myanmar should be held accountable. Justice for victims will contribute to a sustainable and inclusive political future for the country and its people.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/196353-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 24 August 2022
Title: Myanmar trade unions and civil society organizations face existential threat following military takeover
Content: 24 August 2022
Targeted persecution severely limits ability to operate; more flexible and responsive support from international community needed to avoid collapse of civic space and worker organizing.
BANGKOK, Thailand (ILO News) - The military takeover in Myanmar has taken a severe toll on trade unions and Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) providing services to workers and migrants, according to a new report by the International Labour Organization (ILO).

Riding out the storm: Organizational resilience of trade unions and civil society organizations following the military takeover in Myanmar  details the severe impact of the February 2021 takeover on trade unions and CSOs.

It highlights how the targeted persecution of these groups, including arbitrary arrests, detentions, acts of violence, raids on homes and offices, seizure of equipment, threatening phone calls, interrogations and surveillance, have substantially limited their ability to operate.

Trade unions and CSOs reported being forced to make major adjustments to their work in response to the heightened safety and security concerns since the military takeover.

“Trade unions and Civil Society Organizations have provided the foundation for much of the progress made on increasing labour rights protection in Myanmar over the last decade. The current state of affairs represents a genuine threat to their existence. The international community must stand with these organizations to help them survive and continue their vital work,” said Panudda Boonpala, ILO Deputy Regional Director for Asia and the Pacific.

The report recommends that the international community increases its flexibility and responsiveness to counter this existential threat to civic space and worker organizing in Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/196969-myanmar-trade-unions-and-civil-society-organizations-face-existential-threat-following




Date: 19 August 2022
Title: Statement by the Humanitarian Coordinator a.i, Mr. Ramanathan Balakrishnan, on the occasion of World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2022
Yangon – On World Humanitarian Day 2022, I want to pay tribute to the dedicated aid workers of Myanmar who are risking their lives to deliver vital assistance to communities in need every day, and also remember those who have died or been injured in the course of their work.
I want to use this occasion to call for an end to the unrelenting violence that is terrifying communities and making these brave humanitarian efforts necessary. Civilians should never be a target and humanitarian workers in Myanmar must be allowed to do their jobs free from restrictions and harassment, in line with all the protections afforded to them under international law.
It takes a “humanitarian village” to help a community in crisis and the UN, International NGOs and the Red Cross family stand in solidarity with the growing network of local responders who have stepped up to help their own communities and are now the backbone of the Myanmar response. I applaud their tireless commitment to finding new ways of reducing suffering in the face of daily horrors.
Never has this work been more important with conflict raging, 1.2 million people now displaced, and poverty and inflation surging. A massive national effort is underway to reach more than 6 million crisis-affected people with assistance before the end of the year and we are half-way to this annual goal despite severe access constraints.
The humanitarian community has stayed and delivered, working with local partners to expand our operations on an unprecedented scale. With generous funding from donors, local, national and international humanitarian organizations reached more than 3 million people with assistance in the first half of 2022, but there is still a long way to go.
This effort will require improved access to people in need, relief from debilitating bureaucratic constraints and a dramatic scale-up in donor support. Expanded humanitarian access, especially to conflict-affected areas, is vital and negotiations to secure this access should never be politicized or made transactional.
The 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan is just 17 per cent funded, 8 months into the year. More resources are desperately needed for us to continue our life-saving work and avoid heart-wrenching decisions about who we cannot help.
On World Humanitarian Day, we urge the international donor community to again step-up in these difficult times and give generously in solidarity with the people of Myanmar, supporting the country’s “humanitarian village” to save lives and reduce suffering.
Background
On 19 August 2003, a bomb attack on the Canal Hotel in Baghdad, Iraq, killed 22 humanitarian aid workers, including the UN Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello. Five years later, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution designating 19 August as World Humanitarian Day. Each year, World Humanitarian Day focuses on a theme, bringing together partners from across the humanitarian system to advocate for the survival, well-being and dignity of people affected by crises, and for the safety and security of aid workers. For this year’s World Humanitarian Day theme is ‘It takes a village’ emphasizing the global collective effort required by the entire humanitarian community from local volunteers through to UN agencies to protect and assist millions of people every day.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/195579-statement-humanitarian-coordinator-ai-mr-ramanathan-balakrishnan-occasion-world-humanitarian




Date: 17 August 2022
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY: In first meeting in Nay Pyi Taw, Special Envoy Heyzer states steps State Administration Council must take to de-escalate conflict and reduce suffering of Myanmar people
Content: 17 August 2022
NAY PYI TAW – Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer met with State Administration Council (SAC) Chairman Senior General Min Aung Hlaing in Nay Pyi Taw today, in her first visit to Myanmar as Special Envoy, to communicate in person the pragmatic steps to de-escalate the violence, address the multidimensional crisis and advance unfettered humanitarian assistance free of discrimination to all people in need.
The Special Envoy’s meeting with the Senior General and his senior advisers is part of broader efforts by the United Nations to urgently support an effective and peaceful Myanmar-led political pathway to return to civilian rule based on the will and the needs of the people. The Special Envoy’s mandate as an impartialactor is to engage with all stakeholders in Myanmar, the region and globally consistent with the principles of the United Nations. The Special Envoy’s visit follows her extensive consultations with actors from across the political spectrum, civil society and as communities affected by the conflict.
“The United Nations Secretary-General is extremely concerned about the gravity of the humanitarian, security, economic and political crisis,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “My visit is to convey the concern of the United Nations and propose concrete steps needed to reduce the conflict and suffering of the people. UN engagement does not in any way confer legitimacy. The people of Myanmar have the right to democracy and self-determination free from fear and want, which will only be possible by the good will and efforts of all stakeholders in an inclusive process.” She added that the United Nations was focused on providing support to women in Myanmar, the protection and empowerment of whom is key to achieving peace and any economic and social transformation.
The Special Envoy stated that any progress in Myanmar depended on an end to the violence and visible and significant improvements in the lives of people on the ground. Following the recent death sentences carried out against pro-democracy activists that the United Nations has strongly condemned, the Special Envoy directly urged the Senior General to impose a moratorium on all future executions. She also reiterated the United Nations Secretary-General’s call for the release of all political prisoners.
“I urged the SAC to implement the Secretary-General’s appeal,” the Special Envoy said. “I also conveyed a specific request from the Australian Government that has asked for the release of Australian economist Sean Turnell. Personally, I call for the release of all children who are being detained in prisons or other facilities.”
The Special Envoy amplified the latest call from the Security Council for an immediate cessation of all forms of violence, full respect for human rights and the rule of law, and full, safe and unfettered humanitarian access to all those in need. She called for immediate and specific de-escalation steps including ending aerial bombing and the burning of civilian houses and infrastructure.
The Special Envoy stated her deep concern about civilian displacement across communities and the need for greater space for humanitarian actors to reach those affected with lifesaving support. She underlined that all parties must facilitate the unimpeded and immediate delivery of humanitarian assistance to all people in need without discrimination and free from instrumentalization. She highlighted the importance of delivery through all channels and raised the issue of an inclusive forum for humanitarian engagement, which several key ethnic armed organizations and other actors have asked her to establish, focusing on the emergency that is a direct result of the political crisis.
The Special Envoy raised her request for a meeting with State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi following her latest sentencing. “I’m deeply concerned about Daw Aung San Suu Kyi’s health and well-being in her current situation, and request that she can return home soon,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “I want to have an opportunity to meet with her as soon as possible, both because I care about her personally and I believe she is a critical stakeholder for my dialogue with all parties concerned.”
Ahead of her mission to Bangladesh later this month, the Special Envoy told the Senior General she plans to consult with the Government and visit the refugee camps in Cox’s Bazaar that host about 1 million Rohingya and other forcibly displaced people. She highlighted Myanmar’s responsibility for conducive conditions for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return of refugees as well as to ensure that the Rohingya’s rights and well-being are integral to the future of a peaceful and prosperous Myanmar.
The Special Envoy presented the Senior General with a copy of the UN Charter, on which the ASEAN Charter is based, and emphasized that sovereignty must come with development for all, leaving no one behind, and the promise that every individual in every country has an equal claim to dignity, respect and freedom from want or fear. The UN Charter is the foundation of the rule-based world order, the Special Envoy told the Senior General, adding that these norms and standards must be met if peace and stability are to be achieved.
The Special Envoy emphasized the strong commitment of the United Nations to continue making all efforts to provide humanitarian assistance and community-based resilience support and protection services to people in need, guided by the internationally recognized principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence, and asked the Senior General to respect and support these efforts. She highlighted her continued resolve to act in a bridging role and leverage her convening power to address the protection needs and suffering of the most vulnerable and to end the conflict.
Going forward, the Special Envoy and the Senior General agreed to engage in frank conversations, focusing on the need for inclusive solutions to a peaceful and democratic Myanmar, reflective of the will of the people.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/195256-media-advisory-first-meeting-nay-pyi-taw-special-envoy-heyzer-states-steps-state




Date: 01 August 2022
Title: New ILO estimates show Myanmar remains deeply affected by job losses in first half of 2022
Content: 01 August 2022
BANGKOK, Thailand (ILO news) - Myanmar remains deeply affected by heavy job losses 18 months after the military takeover on 1 February 2021 and two and a half years into the global pandemic, according to new estimates released by the International Labour Organization (ILO).
The ILO estimates that 1.1 million fewer women and men are employed compared to 2020, which indicates a small recovery in jobs in the first half of 2022. However, employment remains well below 2020 levels while the quality of jobs is deteriorating.  Women are also more affected than men overall.
In the first half of 2022, labour productivity contracted a further 2 per cent, adding to an 8 per cent contraction in 2021, reversing the strong gains that had been made in years prior to the military takeover.
Labour conditions are deteriorating for many workers with serious violations of labour rights as referred to in decisions of the ILO Committee on Freedom of Association, ILO Governing Body and in the International Labour Conference Resolution of 2021.
The situation has taken a toll on enterprises and workers in key sectors. In the garment industry, evidence points to an increase in casual or daily labour, irregular working hours and workers receiving lower pay. ILO research also shows that more widely, entitlements such as severance pay when workers’ jobs are terminated are also often not granted.
“Eighteen months on from the military takeover, the employment situation in Myanmar remains very difficult. While there are limited signs of job growth, the ongoing erosion of labour conditions and the decrease in job quality is deeply concerning,” said Mr. Donglin Li, ILO Myanmar Liaison Officer.

Further details can be found here.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/192898-new-ilo-estimates-show-myanmar-remains-deeply-affected-job-losses-first-half-2022




Date: 27 July 2022
Title: Security Council press statement on the situation in Myanmar
Content: 27 July 2022
The members of the Security Council condemned the Myanmar military’s execution of opposition activists over the weekend. They recalled the Secretary-General’s statement of 25 July 2022 and echoed his call for the immediate release of all arbitrarily detained prisoners, including President Win Myint and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi.
The members of the Security Council also recalled the ASEAN Chair’s Statement of 25 July 2022, which expressed ASEAN’s denunciation and strong disappointment at the execution despite the appeals of the ASEAN Chair and some ASEAN member states for the sentences to be reconsidered. They noted ASEAN’s view that implementation of the death sentences was highly reprehensible and presented a gross lack of will to support the efforts of the ASEAN Chair in expediting progress on the implementation of the Five Point Consensus. They noted ASEAN’s call for utmost restraint, patience and efforts to avoid escalating the situation, and for all parties concerned to desist from taking actions that would only further aggravate the crisis.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their strong support to ASEAN and the efforts of the ASEAN Chair and echoed ASEAN’s call for concrete actions to effectively and fully implement the Five Point Consensus. They underlined the important role of the United Nations Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar, and encouraged close coordination with the ASEAN Special Envoy to ensure synergy.

The members of the Security Council called for the pursuance of dialogue with all parties concerned and reconciliation in accordance with the will and interests of the people of Myanmar. They also called for an immediate cessation of all forms of violence, including attacks on infrastructure, health and education facilities, for full respect for human rights and the rule of law, and for full, safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all those in need. They reiterated their full support for Myanmar’s democratic transition and their strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/192260-security-council-press-statement-situation-myanmar




Date: 26 July 2022
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY: UN Special Envoy Heyzer calls for inclusive engagement and innovative solutions for Rohingya during mission to Malaysia
Content: 26 July 2022
KUALA LUMPUR – During her two-day mission to Kuala Lumpur at the invitation of His Excellency Foreign Minister Saifuddin Abdullah, the Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General on Myanmar Noeleen Heyzer expressed her appreciation to the people and Government of Malaysia as host of the largest Rohingya refugee population in ASEAN.
Special Envoy Heyzer had very productive discussions with His Excellency Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob and the Foreign Minister on the situation in Myanmar. The Special Envoy echoed the United Nations Secretary-General’s strong condemnation of the executions of pro-democracy leaders by the military as a blatant violation to the right to life, liberty and security of person. The discussions touched on the setback of the executions on ASEAN’s efforts, including the Five-Point Consensus, and also focused on concrete areas of cooperation with the United Nations Special Envoy, as requested by the ASEAN Heads of State and Foreign Ministers. Moving forward, the urgency for inclusive engagement was stressed.
During her meeting with the Foreign Minister, the Special Envoy focused on education to prevent a “lost generation” of Rohingya refugees and other displaced persons from Myanmar and the importance of legal employment and protection for Myanmar migrant workers and refugees in Malaysia.
Nearly five years after the mass forced displacement of Rohingya and other communities from Rakhine State in Myanmar, the Special Envoy highlighted the need for innovative thinking to break the impasse and strengthen support for the Rohingya and host communities from countries in the region and across the international community. She stressed that ultimately it was Myanmar’s responsibility to address underlying issues affecting the Rohingya and establish durable solutions for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return of all refugees and forcibly displaced persons.
The Special Envoy recognized Malaysia’s major role within ASEAN, as a member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and in the Vice Presidency of the 77th Session of the General Assembly. Ahead of the ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Meeting in early August, the Special Envoy also acknowledges the important role of the ASEAN Secretary-General as part of the regional bloc’s commitment on Rakhine. She called for ASEAN Foreign Ministers to keep the Rohingya issue high on the ASEAN agenda and to support the implementation of the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State.
Ahead of her visit to Bangladesh in late August, the Special Envoy also highlighted the important cooperation with His Excellency Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh A. K. Abdul Momen, reflected in his recent visits to Cambodia as chair of ASEAN as well as to Indonesia. Special Envoy Heyzer acknowledged the challenges faced by host countries compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic and global economic conditions, with Bangladesh as host of 1.2 million refugees bearing a disproportionate burden that the international community regionally and abroad has a responsibility to help to alleviate, including through support for quality and inclusive education for refugees and host communities.
“As the UN Secretary-General has said, education is a pre-eminent public good,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. Quality and inclusive education, including vocational training and lifelong learning, has the potential to transform people’s lives and lifelong opportunities as well as to enable them to build societies to become more just, peaceful and prosperous for all.
Ahead of the Transforming Education Summit in New York on 19 September 2022, the Special Envoy emphasized that education was a fundamental right of Rohingya people with long-term ramifications for the region. “As I discussed recently with Permanent Representatives of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation’s Contact Group on the Rohingya crisis and highlighted in my briefing to the General Assembly on 13 June, we need swift measures to prevent a lost generation by providing Rohingya and others education opportunities, including abroad,” she said.
In line with her role to maintain communication and engage intensively with all relevant parties in Myanmar, the Special Envoy continues to consult directly with affected Rohingya communities and their representatives. She is engaging with a wide range of diverse groups currently residing in Malaysia who had been forcibly displaced from Myanmar to hear their perspectives and ways forward to improve the situation. Recognizing women’s crucial role in communities and the gendered dimension of the conflict, Special Envoy Heyzer is encouraged by the resilience of women leaders in her engagement to ensure that Myanmar-led solutions include women’s voices and concerns.
Amid halting progress over the past five years, the desperate situation continues to drive Rohingya people to undertake perilous sea and land journeys, including refugees and people still facing hardship in Rakhine State, despite some community efforts to build social cohesion. There is an urgent need for innovative strategies and concrete pathways aligned with the needs and will of the Rohingya people. The region and the world must renew solidarity to ensure that the Rohingya remain high on the ASEAN and international agenda, provide support for host communities, and continue to work towards durable solutions based on voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable repatriation.
“We must not allow the Rohingya people’s sense of being forgotten and abandoned to take root,” Special Envoy Heyzer said. “Their right to live in dignity as human beings must be supported and safeguarded by all, including the international community.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/191995-media-advisory-un-special-envoy-heyzer-calls-inclusive-engagement-and-innovative-solutions




Date: 25 July 2022
Title: Myanmar: Bachelet condemns executions, calls for release of all political prisoners
Content: 25 July 2022
GENEVA – UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet today condemned in the strongest terms the execution of four democracy activists by Myanmar’s military despite repeated calls by the United Nations and the wider international community to not carry out death sentences.
“I am dismayed that despite appeals from across the world, the military conducted these executions with no regard for human rights,” Bachelet said. “This cruel and regressive step is an extension of the military’s ongoing repressive campaign against its own people.
“These executions – the first in Myanmar in decades - are cruel violations of the rights to life, liberty and security of a person, and fair trial guarantees. For the military to widen its killing will only deepen its entanglement in the crisis it has itself created.”
The High Commissioner called for the immediate release of all political prisoners and others arbitrarily detained, and urged the country to reinstate its de-facto moratorium on the use of the death penalty, as a step towards eventual abolition.
On 25 July, Myanmar state media reported that the military had executed four people including former National League for Democracy (NLD) lawmaker Phyo Zeya Thaw, democracy activist Kyaw Min Yu, popularly known as Ko Jimmy. Hla Myo Aung and Aung Thura Zaw were the other two men executed.
Ko Jimmy and Phyo Zaya Thaw were arrested on 23 October and 18 November 2021 respectively. Ko Jimmy was subsequently charged with sedition. Both Phyo Zayar Thaw and Ko Jimmy were also charged under the Counter Terrorism Law and sentenced to death by a military tribunal on 21 January 2022. Their subsequent appeals were denied. Hla Myo Aung, and Aung Thura Zaw were convicted on murder charges. Their appeals were also denied.
In Myanmar, such cases are being heard by military courts behind closed doors. Since the military coup on 1 February 2021, 117 people, including two children, have been sentenced to death including 41 sentenced in absentia. Over 11,500 people remain in detention for opposing the military’s seizure of power.
“Most concerningly, over 30 percent of over 2,100 people killed since February 2021 have died in military custody – most as a result of ill-treatment,” said Bachelet.
On 3 June, UN Secretary General António Guterres expressed concern at the military’s decision to go ahead with executions and reiterated his calls for the respect of people’s rights to freedom of opinion and expression. Bachelet echoed his call for the military to “drop all charges against those arrested on charges related to the exercise of their fundamental freedoms and rights” and the immediate release of all political prisoners in Myanmar.
“The military seems unconcerned with ending this crisis or reducing violence in accordance with its international obligations, let alone any willingness to respect due process, justice or rule of law,” Bachelet said.
The High Commissioner reiterated her call to Myanmar’s neighbours and to the wider international community to hold the military accountable to its commitments under international law, as well as further to ASEAN’s “Five-Point Consensus”.
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/191944-myanmar-bachelet-condemns-executions-calls-release-all-political-prisoners




Date: 24 June 2022
Title: UNICEF statement on the death of two boys by a grenade round explosion in Magwe Region, Myanmar
Content: 24 June 2022
YANGON – Last week, two seven-year-old boys were tragically killed in a grenade round explosion in Gangaw Township, Magwe Region.
The incident occurred on 19 June, when the two boys were playing with an unexploded grenade round they found in a jungle.
Landmines and unexploded ordnance (UXO) continue to kill and maim many children in Myanmar.
At least 115 children have been killed or injured by landmines and UXO since February 2021, including 47 casualties that occurred between January and April 2022 alone.
In times of conflict, children are the most vulnerable, including from landmines and UXO. Since children are smaller than adults, they are more likely to take the full impact of the blast and are therefore more likely to suffer death or serious injury.
In Myanmar, more than one third of the reported casualties from landmines and UXO are children.
The safety and rights of children must be the primary consideration in all contexts. During the first five months of 2022, UNICEF and partners have reached 20,000 children across Myanmar with Explosive Ordnance Risk Education.
UNICEF calls on all parties to facilitate access for assistance to victims; to stop laying mines and to clear existing mines and UXO.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/187497-unicef-statement-death-two-boys-grenade-round-explosion-magwe-region-myanmar




Date: 14 June 2022
Title: ILO Myanmar calls for more action to end child labour
Content: 14 June 2022
This World Day Against Child Labour on June 12, taking place shortly after the 5th Global Conference on the Elimination of Child Labour, ILO Myanmar calls to accelerate multi-stakeholder efforts to prevent and eliminate child labour, with priority given to the worst forms of child labour.
Yangon (ILO News) - In line with the Durban Call to Action  adopted last month, ILO Myanmar expresses its continued commitment to make decent work a reality for adults and youth above the minimum age for work.

Almost one in ten of Myanmar’s 12 million children between the age of 5 and 17 are engaged in child labour, often exposed to hazards and risks. The compounded impact of the military takeover and persistent armed conflicts on top of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to an estimated  1.6 million jobs lost in Myanmar in 2021, heightening the risk of families resorting to child labour.

According to a recent report  by the ILO, it is estimated that the incidence of child labour in countries affected by armed conflict was 77 per cent higher than the global average, and the incidence of hazardous work was 50 per cent higher. This suggests that the current context in Myanmar will exacerbate child labour.

“The unstable political landscape and deteriorating economic situation in Myanmar have forced more and more families into poverty. In times of crisis, concerted efforts among all stakeholders are needed more than ever before to increase social protections to prevent and protect children from child labour in all forms,” said Mr Donglin Li, ILO Myanmar Liaison Officer/Representative.
Drawing on this year’s World Day Against Child Labour theme, “Universal Social Protection to End Child Labour”, ILO Myanmar will engage with civil society, development partners and social partners in training and awareness-raising activities through its e-learning programme  and interventions.

Some of the actions include   panel discussions, community based events, awareness-raising videos, a drawing contest  and a photo exhibition “Burning Hands ”   (Institut Français de Birmanie), which will take place throughout June to August.  More details will be announced via the ILO Myanmar Facebook page .
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/186115-ilo-myanmar-calls-more-action-end-child-labour




Date: 08 June 2022
Title: Statement by Mr. Ramanathan Balakrishnan, UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i., on the killing of WHO staff member
Content: 08 June 2022
Statement by Mr. Ramanathan Balakrishnan, the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator ad interim, on the killing of a World Health Organization staff member.
The United Nations in Myanmar is deeply saddened by the death of Mr. Myo Min Htut, a World Health Organization staff, during a security incident in Mawlamyine Township, Mon State. Mr Myo Min Htut had worked for the World Health Organization as a driver for nearly 5 years and the United Nations sends heartfelt condolences to his family.
Mr Myo Min Htut was shot dead when riding his own motorcycle on Thanlwin Uyin Road around 5pm on 8 June 2022. The exact circumstances of the incident currently remain unclear.
Condemning the killing of the UN staff, Mr. Ramanathan Balakrishnan, the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator ad interim in Myanmar said, “The United Nations appeals to all parties and stakeholders to respect the neutrality of the United Nations and Humanitarians and further calls for all parties to protect the rights and safety of civilians and strongly condemns acts of violence against civilians. The United Nations expects an impartial investigation into the incident and the perpetrators to be held accountable.”
He further added, “During these difficult times, against significant odds, the United Nations continues to stay and deliver essential humanitarian and development support for the people of Myanmar”.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/185461-statement-mr-ramanathan-balakrishnan-un-resident-coordinator-and-humanitarian-coordinator-ai




Date: 30 May 2022
Title: ILO to launch Myanmar eLearning Programme on Child Labour to bolster social protection and community action
Content: 30 May 2022
ILO (Myanmar) launches eLearning Programme on child labour.
YANGON (ILO News) - On the back of the 5th Global Conference on the Elimination of Child Labour, ILO Myanmar has announced the upcoming release of a Myanmar eLearning Programme on Child Labour to enable stakeholders to take action against child labour.

Delivered in Myanmar and English language, the nine-module interactive course is set to go live at the ILO’s digital learning platform  on June 12, the World Day Against Child Labour.

The course aims to equip civil society partners, social workers, employers and worker’s organizations to effectively assess and address cases of child labour within their communities. The modules consist of a live, instructor-led component and an ‘on-demand’ online component. It also provides participants with comprehensive information and tools to design interventions contributing to the elimination of child labour.

“Economic challenges and school closures due to the Covid 19 pandemic, political and security crisis in Myanmar are exacerbating child labour in Myanmar.  With millions of children at risk, capacity building and collective and timely responses have become even more critical,” said Mr Donglin Li, ILO Myanmar Liaison Officer/Representative.
The ILO and UNICEF at Headquarters launched a new report  last week during the 5th  Global Conference to Eliminate Child Labour that estimates that 60 million children – 1 in 10 worldwide – were in child labour at the beginning of 2020. Without effective action, that number could rise by 8.9 million by the end of 2022, due to higher poverty and increased vulnerability.

Children in conflict areas without proper access to social protection are even more likely to become involved in work and less likely to get an education. According to another report  launched last week by the ILO , the incidence of child labour in countries affected by armed conflict was 77 per cent higher than the global average, and the incidence of hazardous work was 50 per cent higher.

Delegates at the 5th Global Conference on the Elimination of Child Labour last week have already adopted the Durban Call to Action  which outlines commitments in six different areas to end child labour, including strengthening the prevention and elimination of child labour, including its worst forms, and achieving universal access to social protection.

If most countries put proper social protection measures in place, child labour can decline by 15 million by the end of 2022, thus allowing a significant improvement in sustainable development goals (SDG) 8.7.

The ILO is the only tripartite United Nations agency devoted to promoting rights at work, encourage decent employment opportunities, enhance social protection and strengthen dialogue on work-related issues.  More information about the ILO’s work in Myanmar can be found at https://www.ilo.org/yangon .
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/184110-ilo-launch-myanmar-elearning-programme-child-labour-bolster-social-protection-and-community




Date: 27 May 2022
Title: Statement on access to learning for millions of children in Myanmar: Learning opportunities for children
Content: 27 May 2022
YANGON – As the traditional start of the Myanmar academic year in June approaches, millions of children and young people across the country face uncertainty as to when and how they will continue learning.
The learning of almost 12 million children and young people in Myanmar has been disrupted by COVID-19 and the current humanitarian crisis.
All children in Myanmar have the right to education, as enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Myanmar Child Rights Law, and the National Education Law.
To realize this right, access to quality learning options needs to be rapidly scaled up. To facilitate access to learning, the safety of children, their parents, and educators must be protected. These include teachers, volunteer teachers, learning facilitators and education officials. Safe, unimpeded access for the delivery of all humanitarian aid, including the delivery of learning materials, needs to be guaranteed.
Guided by humanitarian principles, UNICEF is working with its partners to provide supplementary learning opportunities for children by distributing reading books, including in ethnic languages; supplementary learning materials; and essential learning package kits, coupled with follow-up support to children and their families.
UNICEF is engaging with relevant stakeholders to help ensure that the most vulnerable children can benefit from safe learning, wherever they are.
UNICEF in Myanmar operates within the UN system to protect and promote the rights of children enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. UNICEF abides by the humanitarian principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence, as well as do no harm and universality in all of its work.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/183747-statement-access-learning-millions-children-myanmar-learning-opportunities-children




Date: 23 May 2022
Title: UNHCR shocked at Rohingya deaths in boat tragedy off Myanmar coast
Content: 23 May 2022
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is shocked and saddened by reports that more than a dozen Rohingya – including children – have perished at sea off the coast of Myanmar over the weekend.
While details remain unclear, initial reports suggest the boat left Sittwe in Rakhine State, Myanmar on 19 May. It encountered bad weather in waters off Ayeyarwady Region, causing it to capsize near the coast of Pathein township on Saturday, 21 May.
At least 17 people are feared dead, with distressing reports of bodies found on the shore and the local communities burying the dead.
“The latest tragedy shows once again the sense of desperation being felt by Rohingya in Myanmar and in the region,’’ said Indrika Ratwatte, UNHCR’s Director for Asia and the Pacific. “It is shocking to see increasing numbers of children, women and men embarking on these dangerous journeys and eventually losing their lives.”
In Myanmar, UNHCR is urgently seeking more information on survivors that have arrived on shore in order to assess their situation.
Over the past decade, thousands of Rohingya have left by sea from the refugee camps in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh and Rakhine State in Myanmar.
“The root causes of these deadly journeys need to be addressed. Additionally, all countries in the region must come together to ensure the rescue and disembarkation of all those in distress at sea,” UNHCR’s Ratwatte added.
UNHCR reiterates its warning that collective failure to act will continue to lead to tragic and fatal consequences. It is imperative to take action against criminals, smugglers and traffickers who prey on the most vulnerable.
UNHCR and partners continue to actively engage refugee and host communities, raising awareness about the risks of falling victim to criminals responsible for these deadly journeys.
Some 630 Rohingya have attempted sea journeys across the Bay of Bengal from January to May 2022.  Women and children made up 60 per cent of people undertaking these perilous maritime crossings. The risk of abuse at the hands of smugglers and the peril of the sea journey itself are both exacerbated during prolonged journeys, when a safe harbour for disembarkation cannot be found.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/183184-unhcr-shocked-rohingya-deaths-boat-tragedy-myanmar-coast




Date: 17 May 2022
Title: The Secretary-General's message on the International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia
Content: 17 May 2022
Around the world, millions of LGBTIQ+ people continue to face injustice, simply for who they are, or whom they love.
I am deeply concerned by continued violence, criminalization, hate speech and harassment against LGBTIQ+ people, and by new attempts to further exclude them from education, employment, healthcare, sports, and housing.
In many countries, LGBTIQ+ people are subjected to profoundly harmful practices, including so-called ‘conversion’ therapy, forced surgery and treatment, and degrading examinations.
Meanwhile, LGBTIQ+ people are among the marginalized groups that are worst affected by the many interlinked crises in our world, from the COVID-19 pandemic to the climate crisis, ongoing conflicts and growing inequality.
LGBTIQ+ people have the same fundamental human rights as everyone else. The solutions are clear.
We need to combat violence against LGBTIQ+ people; outlaw harmful practices; provide justice and support to victims, and end persecution, discrimination, and criminalization. We must tackle the root causes of the marginalization of LGBTIQ+ people as an essential element of the 2030 Agenda and its promise to leave no one behind.
The United Nations is proud to support and uphold the fundamental human rights and dignity of all people – including LGBTIQ+ people.
I call on everyone to join us to build a world of peace, inclusion, freedom and equality for all.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/182117-secretary-generals-message-international-day-against-homophobia-biphobia-and-transphobia




Date: 03 May 2022
Title: Note to Correspondents: Statement by the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy on Myanmar regarding the ASEAN Humanitarian Consultations
Content: 03 May 2022
The United Nations Secretary-General's Special Envoy on Myanmar, Noeleen Heyzer, welcomes the convening of the Consultative Meeting on ASEAN Humanitarian Assistance to Myanmar on 6 May and strongly urges ASEAN leaders and donors to prioritise principled engagement with diverse local humanitarian networks to effectively deliver aid to all communities in need.
Over the past few months, the Special Envoy has held extensive engagements with some of Myanmar’s civil society organisations and local humanitarian networks who have been at the frontline in addressing the widening crisis amid escalating violence and increasing displaced populations. These groups have called for unhindered and safe humanitarian access to facilitate delivery of assistance without discrimination. The key messages from local humanitarian networks are clear: there is a need for the utmost respect of international humanitarian law and humanitarian principles; urgently needed humanitarian aid must not be instrumentalised for political purposes; military infrastructure must not be legitimised through aid delivery; and there is a need not only for more donor funding but also for donor flexibility to  support local humanitarian actors and networks with access to hard-to-reach conflict affected areas, including internally displaced people, border communities and civilians affected by conflict, including in urban areas.
In Myanmar’s currently violent, unstable and insecure context, effective delivery of humanitarian aid requires firm commitment by all aid actors to adhere to international humanitarian law. Given the complexity of Myanmar’s conflict it is imperative that humanitarian assistance is delivered through a diverse range of channels, without discrimination or favour, and reaches the most vulnerable in every part of the country. Safe and unimpeded access for all aid actors is non-negotiable. It is imperative that we build strong, effective and equal partnerships with local and informal humanitarian networks, who have unique access, local knowledge and established trust on the ground, to support the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the people, especially in the hardest-to-reach areas, including through cross border assistance.
We must recognise the current conflict has a disproportionate impact on women and children. The Special Envoy's consultations with women community leaders have highlighted the urgent need for humanitarian support and protection for women and children, capacity building to address gender-based violence and stronger connection to regional and global women leaders. The Special Envoy urges the global community to give women a key role in any humanitarian consultation, as women can help identify the most vulnerable and help monitor effective delivery along humanitarian principles. Reflective of the Secretary-General's commitment to the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) agenda, we must actively engage women to fully address the humanitarian and protection needs of the people and amplify their voices for a future federal democratic union of peace, stability and shared prosperity.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/180974-note-correspondents-statement-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-special-envoy-myanmar-regarding-asean




Date: 29 April 2022
Title: ILO Myanmar highlights on SAFEDAY the importance of safe and healthy workplaces in building resilience to crises
Content: 29 April 2022
28th April is the World Day for Safety and Health at Work (SafeDay). This year’s campaign focuses on how OSH management can build resilience in workplaces to respond to crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and highlights the important role of workers and employers to implement change.
ILO Yangon - Today in marking the World Day for Safety and Health at Work (SAFEDAY), the ILO has launched an information campaign, aimed at preventing work-related injuries and deaths.

The campaign “Let's make the workplace safe and healthy together ” aims to raise awareness about Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) among workers and employers on behaviours and measures that can prevent workplace accidents, injuries, illnesses and diseases.

This year’s campaign focuses on how OSH management can build resilience in workplaces to respond to public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and highlights the important role of workers and employers to implement change. The campaign includes a Facebook page on accident and injury prevention at the workplace, events and discussions with workers and employers organizations, and training on COVID-19 prevention and mitigation as well as mental health awareness.

“OSH management is an essential component of building resilience in workplaces to withstand the multiple crises affecting economic livelihoods in Myanmar including COVID-19 as well as the impact of the military takeover” – says Donglin Li, ILO Liaison Officer and Representative in Myanmar.

The ILO estimates that some 2.9 million women and men around the world succumb to occupational accidents or work-related diseases every year. More than 1.5 million of these deaths were the result of non-communicable diseases developed from working conditions. Additionally, there’s some 360 million non-fatal occupational accidents each year.

“SAFEDAY” plays a crucial role globally in advocacy and awareness raising, two critical tools in raising the profile and importance of Occupational Safety and Health. It supports Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 8 that aims to achieve safe and secure working environments for all workers by 2030.

The ILO in Myanmar is also continuing its efforts in preventing and mitigating COVID-19. The Vision Zero Fund has reached over 6,000 workers and employers (58 per cent women) in nearly all States and Regions with prevention and mitigation training since the start of the pandemic in 2020. In addition, mental health is also a key focus under the Safety and Health for All Workers in Myanmar Project, part of the ILO Global Flagship Programme Safety + Health For All. The project kicked off mental health awareness and information sessions, and an introduction to mental health first aid training in February 2022.

The SAFEDAY campaign is a joint initiative of the Vision Zero Fund Project, an ILO initiative funded by a multi-donor trust fund, and the Safety and Health for All Workers in Myanmar Project, funded by the Government of Japan.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/180013-ilo-myanmar-highlights-safeday-importance-safe-and-healthy-workplaces-building-resilience




Date: 01 April 2022
Title: Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Under-Secretary-General Noeleen Heyzer
Content: 01 April 2022
In continuation of her close cooperation with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Special Envoy visited the Kingdom of Cambodia.  This mission was undertaken against the backdrop of escalating violence throughout Myanmar, as bombings and other excesses committed are compounding multiple vulnerabilities facing millions of people struggling for survival.
The Special Envoy held frank and constructive discussion with the ASEAN Chair His Excellency Mr. Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia and the ASEAN Special Envoy His Excellency Mr. Prak Sokhonn, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, with a view to fostering meaningful and effective implementation of the ASEAN Five-Point Consensus.
This important collaboration has been part of the Special Envoy’s close engagement with all ASEAN Foreign Ministers who, in their February statement, encouraged the ASEAN Special Envoy to coordinate closely with the Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General on Myanmar to ensure synergy.
In her interactions with Member States, including during recent visits to the United Nations Headquarters in New York and Washington D.C., in the Security Council and through various Regional Organizations, the Special Envoy has continued to stress the urgency for coherent international backing of a unified regional approach supportive of a Myanmar-led process reflective of the will of the people.
Recalling the importance highlighted by the Security Council and General Assembly for the Special Envoy to maintain communication and engage intensively with all relevant parties in Myanmar, the Special Envoy shared her comprehensive assessment of the somber ground realities and sentiments among a range of domestic stakeholders as she sought to strengthen complementarity to the work of ASEAN.
In this respect, the Special Envoy’s extensive discussions with the Cambodian Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister focused on helping align the implementation of the Five-Point Consensus with the will and needs of the people, without further delay.  She stressed it was paramount for ASEAN to listen carefully to all voices on the ground in supporting durable peace and national reconciliation.  The Special Envoy emphasized that indicators and results on the ground were urgently needed, adding any goodwill towards protecting the people of Myanmar and their livelihoods needed to be demonstrated in concrete terms.
The Special Envoy highlighted she will continue to amplify the voices of the people of Myanmar and encourage international action based on an accurate assessment of the situation.   She will also continue to engage with all key stakeholders, focusing on helping articulate the bottom-lines and conditions needed for momentum towards any talks about talks in the greater interest of peace, stability and democracy.
Such engagement will include the UN-ASEAN Women, Peace and Security (WPS) platform which will be co-chaired with Her Excellency Ms. Retno Marsudi, Foreign Minister of Indonesia. This platform would advance the humanitarian and protection agenda at the local level, especially for women and children who are disproportionately impacted by the violence, and to amplify the voices and vision of women and young people as agents of change.
The Special Envoy urged the Prime Minister to leverage his influence on Myanmar’s Commander-in-Chief to de-escalate violence and serve the greater interests of the people. In the context of her own potential visit to Myanmar, the Special Envoy and the Prime Minster discussed the importance of convincing the military leadership that any stability requires the immediate cessation of hostilities and a genuinely inclusive approach.  A federal democratic union must be pursued in accordance with the will of the people, grounded firmly in the ASEAN Charter and the norms and values of the United Nations.
In her discussion with the ASEAN Special Envoy, Special Envoy Heyzer appreciated his sustained efforts in Myanmar to address obstacles in delivering humanitarian assistance, and his follow up proposals including a Consultative Meeting, and further discussions on visit outcomes such as the ASEAN Troika mechanism, the Friends of Myanmar, and the Humanitarian Corridor Arrangement. She highlighted the importance of effective humanitarian assistance to all people in need without discrimination.  This will require safe and unhindered access to all affected areas and the delivery of aid through all existing channels.
In this regard, the Special Envoy reinforced the importance of an expanded approach to providing humanitarian assistance, adding that a robust ASEAN-UN umbrella, which both Envoys could co-facilitate to deliver assistance to affected communities through all existing channels and address the multiple priority needs of the people across the country. This would include civilian protection as well as food security, socio-economic resilience, humanitarian and COVID-19 assistance.
The Special Envoy’s discussions in Phnom Penh also stressed that addressing the plight of the Rohingya needed to be part and parcel of any broader solution for a genuinely inclusive Myanmar. She urged ASEAN to redouble its efforts to help support durable solutions for Rohingya remaining in Rakhine as a key confidence builder.
There is an urgency to help the people of Myanmar realize, in concrete terms, their desire for a peaceful, democratic and inclusive future. ASEAN and the broader international community have a responsibility to amplify and support the will of the people.  It is also the obligation of any responsible military to protect its citizens and respect their aspirations.  She reiterated her commitment to working closely with ASEAN and its members towards this end, making available the wide array of comparative advantages and expertise of the United Nations to reinforce and complement regional action.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/176574-special-envoy-secretary-general-myanmar-under-secretary-general-noeleen-heyzer




Date: 25 March 2022
Title: Joint news release: WFP and UNOPS Livelihoods and Food Security Fund team up to provide cash transfers for vulnerable communities affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in Myanmar
Content: 25 March 2022
Yangon - The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the UNOPS-managed Livelihoods and Food Security Fund (LIFT) have just launched a cash assistance programme for most vulnerable communities in conflict-affected areas as they continue coping with the impact of COVID-19 in Myanmar.
Through technical support from WFP, LIFT has recently provided one-time, 65,000 Myanmar Kyat (appr 36 USD) cash transfers to over 46,000 households, including internally displaced people and poor families in conflict-affected communities in Kachin, northern Shan, Rakhine and Chin states. The assistance targeted families whose lives and livelihoods were shattered by the coronavirus pandemic, providing them with the resources they desperately needed to meet their basic needs, including food and health care.
“Cash transfers will support families to avoid adopting negative coping mechanisms and support access to nutritious food at a time when most vulnerable households are impacted by the loss of income and amidst multiple socio-economic challenges,” said Sara Netzer, LIFT’s Fund Director.
The assistance was delivered directly to the beneficiaries through WFP’s cash transfer mechanisms already used in its operations in Myanmar.
“WFP is proud and pleased to do its part to facilitate LIFT’s cash transfers for vulnerable households in four states reeling from the impact of successive COVID waves,” remarked Stephen Anderson, WFP’s Country Director in Myanmar. “The LIFT cash transfers complement WFP efforts to scale up food and nutrition assistance for the most food insecure communities across Myanmar.”
LIFT’s previous emergency cash transfers, which were top-up payments to mothers, pregnant women, people with disabilities, migrant workers and the elderly, empowered people with choices when addressing their essential needs. The support also enhanced people’s purchasing power and stimulated local economies.
LIFT’s cash assistance is provided thanks to the financial support of the United Kingdom, the European Union, Switzerland, Australia, the United States of America, Canada, New Zealand, Ireland and Norway. With donor support, LIFT has reached more than 2.9 million people in response to COVID-19 since the onset of pandemic.
#                                   #                                  #
Livelihoods and Food Security Fund (LIFT) is a multi-donor UNOPS-managed fund established in 2009 with the overall aim of reducing by half the number of people living in poverty in Myanmar. LIFT aims to strengthen the resilience and sustainable livelihoods of poor households by helping people to reach their full economic potential. This is achieved through increasing incomes, improving the nutrition of women and children, and decreasing vulnerabilities to shocks, stresses and adverse trends. To date, over 12.8 million people in 77 percent of Myanmar’s townships have benefitted from LIFT’s programmes. Follow LIFT on https://www.facebook.com/liftfund
***
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change. Follow WFP on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
***
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/175871-joint-news-release-wfp-and-unops-livelihoods-and-food-security-fund-team-provide-cash




Date: 15 March 2022
Title: Myanmar: UN report urges immediate, concerted effort by international community to stem violence, hold military accountable
Content: 15 March 2022
GENEVA – The international community must take concerted, immediate measures to stem the spiral of violence in Myanmar, where the military has engaged in systematic and widespread human rights violations and abuses – some of which may amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet said in a new report today.
The report,* released for the 49th regular session of the UN Human Rights Council, said Myanmar's military and security forces have shown a flagrant disregard for human life, bombarding populated areas with airstrikes and heavy weapons and deliberately targeting civilians, many of whom have been shot in the head, burned to death, arbitrarily arrested, tortured or used as human shields.
Citing the determination of Myanmar's people in their opposition to the coup, Bachelet called on the international community to do all it can to resolve the crisis and hold perpetrators of gross violations of international human rights law accountable.
"Throughout the tumult and violence of the past year, the will of the people has clearly not been broken. They remain committed to seeing a return to democracy and to institutions that reflect their will and aspirations," Bachelet said.
Covering the period since the 1 February 2021 military takeover, the report is based on interviews with over 155 victims, witnesses, and advocates, whose accounts were corroborated with satellite imagery, verified multimedia files, and credible open-source information. Its findings, however, represent only a fraction of the violations and abuses Myanmar’s people have been subjected to since the coup.
At least 1,600 people have been killed by security forces and their affiliates and more than 12,500 people have been detained. At least 440,000 others have been displaced and 14 million are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance, the delivery of which has largely been blocked by the military in new and pre-existing areas of need.
The report concluded that there were reasonable grounds to believe the military, the Tatmadaw, had engaged in violence and abuse as part of a widespread and systematic attack directed against civilians – patterns of conduct that may amount to crimes against humanity.
Mass killings have taken place. In July in Sagaing Region, soldiers killed 40 individuals in a series of raids; villagers found the remains of some victims with their hands and feet still tied behind their backs. In December in Kayah State, soldiers burned the bodies of up to 40 men, women and children; villagers described discovering the remains in several trucks, with bodies found in positions indicating they had tried to escape and were burnt alive.
Detainees reported facing torture and other forms of ill-treatment during lengthy interrogations in military detention centres across Myanmar. This reportedly included suspension from the ceiling without food or water; being forced to stand for extended periods while in solitary confinement; electrocution, sometimes alongside injection of unidentified drugs; sexual violence, including rape; and forcing Muslim detainees to ingest pork.
While most of the gross human rights violations documented were carried out by security forces, at least 543 individuals – including local administrators, their families and alleged informants – were also reportedly killed due to their perceived support of the military. Anti-coup armed elements claimed responsibility for 95 of the incidents.
"Meaningful action by the international community is urgently needed to stop yet more individuals from being stripped of their rights, their lives and their livelihoods," Bachelet said.
"The appalling breadth and scale of violations of international law suffered by the people of Myanmar demand a firm, unified, and resolute international response."
ENDS
* These figures have been updated beyond what is included in the HRC report.
* Full report to the Human Rights Council: https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/RegularSessions/Session49/Documents/A_HRC_49_72_AdvanceUneditedVersion.docx
Tag and share
Twitter @UNHumanRights
Facebook unitednationshumanrights
Instagram @unitednationshumanrights
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/174897-myanmar-un-report-urges-immediate-concerted-effort-international-community-stem-violence




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: Statement by the United Nations in Myanmar on International Women's Day 2022
Content: 08 March 2022
On International Women’s Day, the UN in Myanmar reaffirms its solidarity and commitment to the women and girls across Myanmar.

(Yangon) As we mark the occasion of International Women’s Day, the United Nations in Myanmar reiterates its commitment to put women and girls at the centre of its development and humanitarian work in response to the ongoing crises in the country, to ensure that their needs are met, and to support their role and agency in shaping a future path for their country.
The theme for 2022 is “gender equal today for a sustainable tomorrow”, recognizing that gender equality and women's rights are fundamental to global progress on peace and security, human rights, and sustainable development. Throughout history, the women of Myanmar have played a key role in the development of their country. In the past two years, they have both assumed a leading role in the response to the COVID-19 pandemic and been at the forefront calling for a return to democracy and respect of human rights while being disproportionally affected by the compounded crises that the country is going through.
According to the latest humanitarian update from the United Nations in Myanmar, as of 28 February 873,000 people are displaced in Myanmar, including 502,600 people who have fled their homes since 1 February 2021 and 370,400 people from previous conflicts. The majority of IDPs are women and girls. Both the World Bank and International Labour Organization analyses show that the socio-economic impact of the crisis has disproportionally affected women and girls. According to the ILO, 580,000 women were estimated to have lost their employment in just the first six months of 2021.
A recent Study by the UN Development Programme and UN Women reveals that women are bearing the brunt of the impact of COVID-19 and the military takeover with its unprecedented impact on the economy.  Women have adopted drastic coping mechanisms to deal with falling incomes and nearly half of women report a significant increase in their unpaid care and domestic work, reducing their chances to earn a livelihood. Women are also reporting increased difficulty in reaching services including maternal health services.
To address this reality, the members of the United Nations Country Team have worked tirelessly with local women civil society organizations and their partners to prioritize the need of women and girls in their response to the crises.
In 2021, the United Nations delivered sexual and reproductive health services for 46,158 women and gender-based violence services for 28,611 women across the country and supported 6,502 maternal emergency referrals, helping women in hard-to-reach and conflict-affected areas to receive essential health care. The UN also delivered food and nutrition assistance including school feeding and resilience building support for about 1.5 million women and girls across the country, reached more than a quarter of a million women and girls with critical water, sanitation and hygiene supplies and provided more than 120,000 conflict-affected women and girls with access to safe water. Together with partners, over 14,000 girls and 3,500 women were also provided with mental health and psychosocial support services, delivered in communities and through child-friendly spaces.
With support from donors, the UN has provided the equivalent of 1.7 million USD in cash transfers to 39,042 vulnerable garment workers, overwhelmingly women. Financial inclusion partners also provided loans totaling more than 498 million USD to 2.4 million clients, 91 per cent of whom were women, in the first half of 2021. In additional 5.2 million USD in loans were disbursed to more than 257,000, 93 per cent women, in conflicted-affected areas.
On International Women’s Day, the UN in Myanmar reaffirms its solidarity with women and girls, and its commitment to stand by their side as they forge the future of their country. We also echo the words of the UN Secretary-General in recognizing the contribution of women and girls, their ideas, innovations, and activism that are changing our world for the better, and their leadership across all walks of life. Without gender equality today, a sustainable future, and an equal future, remains beyond our reach.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/174075-statement-united-nations-myanmar-international-womens-day-2022




Date: 11 February 2022
Title: UNHCR steps up aid for displaced in Myanmar as conflict intensifies
Content: 11 February 2022
This is a summary of what was said by UNHCR spokesperson Matthew Saltmarsh – to whom quoted text may be attributed – at today's press briefing at the Palais des Nations in Geneva.
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is stepping up its emergency response to assist hundreds of thousands of internally displaced people (IDPs) in Myanmar as their number crossed the 800,000 mark – doubling since February 2021.
Security is deteriorating rapidly across the country as fighting and armed conflict intensifies with no sign of abating.
UNHCR forecasts an accelerating trend of displacements in the coming weeks and months.
Some 440,000 people have been newly displaced since February 2021, according to UNHCR data, adding to an existing 370,000 who had fled their homes previously.
UNHCR and partners are scaling up operations and deploying additional resources to support as many of the displaced as possible, complementing local community responses.
In the South-East of the country, Kayin, Kayah, Mon and Shan (South) states as well as Bago (East) and Tanintharyi regions collectively account for more than half of the 440,000 newly displaced civilians. Kayin and Kayah states remain the most affected as hostilities between various armed groups have triggered large-scale displacements.
Another conflict-affected area with pressing humanitarian needs is Myanmar’s North-West, where about 190,000 people remain displaced in Chin State, Magway Region and Sagaing Region.
Humanitarian access in many parts of Myanmar remains restricted due to insecurity, roadblocks and challenges in obtaining access approvals. As a result, host communities and local responders continue to play a leading role in assisting displaced populations – demonstrating solidarity with each other by donating what they can.
UNHCR has been working with UN agencies, local partners and communities to assist those affected wherever possible, including displaced and stateless populations and host communities. In 2021, UNHCR’s emergency relief assistance reached some 170,000 individuals in nine states and regions in Myanmar.
In all locations, UNHCR and partners distributed relief items including tarpaulins, ropes, blankets, kitchen sets, mosquito nets, buckets, sleeping mats, sanitary kits, COVID-19 personal protective equipment, solar lamps, and winterization kits for adults and children.
In Shan State, where a growing number of IDPs have arrived from conflict-affected Kayah State since the start of 2022, UNHCR recently established a temporary base in Taunggyi to coordinate distribution of emergency aid with partners.
Provision of relief items to Kayah IDPs in and around Taunggyi started in mid-January and quickly expanded to incorporate neighbouring townships. Within a month, UNHCR and partners were able to reach some 10,000 IDPs in Shan as well as 2,000 in Kayah.
The humanitarian situation in Myanmar remains precarious with increased vulnerabilities linked to rising commodity prices, job and income losses, disruptions to basic services and prolonged insecurity. The majority of IDPs are consequently dependent on humanitarian support for survival.
Some 600,000 stateless Rohingya in Rakhine State, including some 148,000 displaced in camps, villages and displacement sites, also remain highly vulnerable and require humanitarian support.
Despite operational challenges, UNHCR continues to stay and deliver in Myanmar. The agency remains committed to providing critical humanitarian assistance to those in need and calls for full, safe and unhindered humanitarian access across Myanmar, so that no disruption to lifesaving work occurs for local, national, and international aid agencies.
In 2022, UNHCR will respond to the ongoing crisis by expanding its protection and operational presence where new displacements have occurred. A total of US$56.7 million is needed to ensure adequate humanitarian assistance and support vulnerable communities.
Our priority will be on maintaining basic safeguards, advocacy for improved access to fundamental rights, mitigating the risk of negative coping strategies, preventing forced returns and building resilience for over 1.2 million IDPs and stateless people in Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/172248-unhcr-steps-aid-displaced-myanmar-conflict-intensifies




Date: 02 February 2022
Title: Security Council Press Statement on the Situation in Myanmar
Content: 02 February 2022
The members of the Security Council expressed deep concern at the continuing state of emergency imposed in Myanmar by the military on 1 February 2021 and its grave impact. They reiterated their calls for the release of all those who remain arbitrarily detained, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint.
The members of the Security Council repeated their support for Myanmar’s democratic transition, including the need to uphold democratic institutions and processes, with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as the rule of law. They also repeated their call for the pursuance of dialogue with all parties concerned, and reconciliation in accordance with the will and interests of the people of Myanmar.
The members of the Security Council expressed deep concern at further recent violence in the country and expressed alarm at the large numbers of internally displaced persons. They condemned attacks on infrastructure, including health and education facilities. They called for an immediate cessation of all forms of violence throughout the country and to ensure the safety of civilians.
They expressed deep concern at the dramatic increase in humanitarian need, particularly among women, children and vulnerable groups, against the backdrop of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. They underlined the need to urgently step up humanitarian assistance and to facilitate the equitable, safe and unhindered delivery and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines. They reiterated the need for full, safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all people in need,and for the full protection, safety and security of humanitarian and medical personnel.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their full support for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ (ASEAN) role in facilitating a peaceful solution in the interest of the people of Myanmar and their livelihoods. They reiterated their calls for the swift and full implementation of ASEAN’s Five Point Consensus. They welcomed the appointment of HE Prak Sokhonn as the ASEAN Special Envoy, expressed their support for his role and his diplomatic efforts to commence constructive dialogue among all parties concerned. They looked forward to his visit to Myanmar at the earliest opportunity to meet with all parties concerned and carry out mediation that facilitates the dialogue process, as well as the provision of humanitarian assistance.
The members of the Security Council underlined the important role of the United Nations Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar and encouraged her to maintain communication and engage intensively with all relevant parties in Myanmar. They also encouraged complementarity of her work to the work of ASEAN.
The members of the Security Council reiterated the need to address the root causes of the crisis in Rakhine state and again expressed concern that recent developments pose additional and particularly serious challenges for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees and internally displaced persons. They encouraged diplomatic efforts between the parties concerned to help address the issues facing Rohingyas. They recalled the vital need for the rights of minorities to be fully protected.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their support for the people of Myanmar and the country’s democratic transition, and their strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/170694-security-council-press-statement-situation-myanmar




Date: 30 January 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 30 January 2022
New York - Tuesday, 1 February, marks one year since Myanmar’s military overturned the democratically elected civilian Government and arbitrarily detained members of Government, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint.  The Secretary-General stands in solidarity with the people of Myanmar and their democratic aspirations for an inclusive society and the protection of all communities, including the Rohingya.
In the past year, there has been an intensification in violence, a deepening of the human rights and humanitarian crises and a rapid rise of poverty in Myanmar.  The multiple vulnerabilities of all people across Myanmar and its regional implications require an urgent response. Access to people in need is critically important for the United Nations and partners to continue to deliver on the ground. Armed forces and all stakeholders must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.  The people of Myanmar need to see concrete results.
The Secretary-General’s Special Envoy Noeleen Heyzer has been actively engaging all stakeholders in support of a Myanmar-led process. She will continue to mobilize immediate action, including through strengthened cooperation between the United Nations and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to address the desperate needs of the people of Myanmar. This is crucial for creating an enabling environment for inclusive dialogue. Any solution needs to derive from engaging directly with and listening carefully to all those affected by the ongoing crisis. Their voices must be heard and amplified.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/170164-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 28 January 2022
Title: ILO estimates reveal 1.6 million jobs lost in Myanmar in 2021
Content: 28 January 2022
Military takeover hammers labour market already weakened by impact of COVID-19, women workers hit hardest.
Yangon (ILO News) - Some 1.6 million jobs were lost in Myanmar in 2021, according to new estimates released by the International Labour Organization (ILO), with the military takeover compounding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
One year on from the military takeover in Myanmar on 1 February 2021, the labour market remains fragile.
Working hours are estimated to have decreased 18 per cent in 2021 relative to 2020, equivalent to the working time of at least 3.1 million full-time workers. These working-hour losses were driven by employment losses as well as increased underemployment.
Key sectors have suffered considerable impacts. Rural farmers were hard hit by armed conflict, violence and insecurity. Construction, garments, and tourism and hospitality were also among the hardest hit industries in 2021, with year-on-year employment losses reaching an estimated 31 per cent, 27 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively.
The losses in both working hours and employment were disproportionately greater for women than men overall. Women also accounted for an overwhelming majority of job losses in garments as well as tourism and hospitality.
“The military takeover and COVID-19 pandemic have put millions of workers in Myanmar in a grim situation.  We are witnessing a reversal of years of progress in the labour market. Should this continue, it can only lead to increased poverty and insecurity across the country,” said Mr. Donglin Li, ILO Myanmar Liaison Officer/Representative.
Further details can be found at Employment in Myanmar in 2021: A rapid assessment (January 2022).
The ILO www.ilo.org is a specialised United Nations Agency bringing together governments, employers and workers from 187 member States to set labour standards, develop policies and devise programmes promoting decent work for all women and men.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/169821-ilo-estimates-reveal-16-million-jobs-lost-myanmar-2021




Date: 13 January 2022
Title: Readout of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar’s virtual call with the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia
Content: 13 January 2022


In her virtual discussion with H.E. Mr. Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Hun Sen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Ms. Noeleen Heyzer urged for immediate action based on strengthened United Nations - Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) cooperation to prevent further deterioration of the situation in Myanmar and address the desperate needs of its people.  She expressed deep concern about continued intensification of military operations, including aerial attacks in parts of the country, emphasising that the people of Myanmar needed to see indicators and results on the ground, requiring any goodwill to be demonstrated in concrete terms.
As highlighted in her discussions with ASEAN Foreign Ministers, the Special Envoy appreciated the confidence of regional leaders in her trust-building efforts with all stakeholders in Myanmar and reliable assessment of the situation on the ground, based on regular contacts with affected communities across the country who continue to appeal for her support and urgent assistance.
The Special Envoy underlined her readiness to help strengthen regional efforts towards effective urgent implementation of the “Five-Point Consensus,” aligned with the will of the people of Myanmar.  The Special Envoy stressed that a Myanmar-led process, that is guided by the will of the people, towards a peaceful, democratic and inclusive future needed to be supported by a coherent international approach grounded on regional unity
She committed to working closely with the Chair of ASEAN and its members towards this end, making available the wide array of comparative advantages and expertise of the United Nations to reinforce and complement regional action, grounded on the “Five-Point Consensus,” as a vital step.
The Special Envoy underlined the urgency for an expanded approach to providing humanitarian assistance. In this respect, she highlighted an UN-ASEAN “humanitarian plus” umbrella could coordinate and deliver assistance to affected communities through all existing channels, and address the multiple priority needs of the people across the country. This would include civilian protection as well as food security, socio-economic resilience, humanitarian and COVID assistance.  The Special Envoy welcomed the Prime Minister’s invitation to co-facilitate such efforts.
She also stressed the importance of advancing the “Five-Point Consensus,” including an immediate cessation of violence, and for all parties to exercise utmost restraint. For this, the Special Envoy advocated for confidence-building measures involving all stakeholders, in addition to ethnic armed organizations.  In this regard, she proposed the UN and ASEAN, as part of its “humanitarian plus” joint action, consider pursuing with all sides a humanitarian pause in targeted areas to allow safe and unhindered access.
The Special Envoy reiterated her offer to work closely with the Special Envoy of the ASEAN Chair. This meant bringing in broader support from the international community and United Nations system around a coordinated strategy towards creating an enabling environment for inclusive dialogue.
She emphasized solutions needed to derive from engaging directly with and listening carefully to all those affected by the ongoing crisis. For example, the Special Envoy encouraged the formation of an UN-ASEAN Women, Peace and Security platform to amplify the voices of women and young people, including from hard-to-reach areas. She looks forward to future discussions with the ASEAN Foreign Ministers to pave the way on the concrete recommendations for joint action.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/168045-readout-special-envoy-secretary-general-myanmar%E2%80%99s-virtual-call-prime-minister-kingdom




Date: 10 January 2022
Title: Denmark bolsters WFP food assistance to conflict-affected communities in Myanmar
Content: 10 January 2022
YANGON – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) welcomes a contribution of DKK 25 million (USD 3.8 million) from the Government of Denmark for its emergency relief operations in Myanmar, where the need for humanitarian assistance has substantially increased following the military takeover in February 2021, compounded by the socio-economic impact of COVID-19.
The Danish contribution will substantially reinforce WFP’s life-saving assistance to some 360,000 internally displaced people and other vulnerable families affected by conflict in various states/regions in Myanmar including Chin, Kachin, Rakhine, and Shan states.
“Denmark is pleased to support the important work of WFP in providing essential humanitarian assistance to the people of Myanmar who are in desperate need of help. Unfortunately, there is an increase in needs but we hope the Danish contribution would help serve the certain population of those in dire need,” said Anders Graugaard, Head of Mission of the Embassy of Denmark in Myanmar.
To help with their urgent food needs in 2022, beneficiaries will receive a basic food basket containing rice, pulses, oil, and salt that meet their daily kilocalorie requirements, or cash with which to buy food at the local market.
“Denmark’s important and timely funding will help WFP save lives in Myanmar at a time of increasing need,” said Stephen Anderson, WFP Myanmar Country Director. “We will ensure this humanitarian assistance directly reaches those most in need, working closely with communities and partners, including local civil society organizations.”
While continuing support to vulnerable populations in border areas, over the last few weeks WFP managed to deliver relief food assistance to displaced people in Mindat in Chin State as well as Kyauk Htu in Magwe Region, areas that are difficult to access. Securing sustained access to needy people uprooted by violence in various parts of the country is a major priority for WFP in Myanmar.
Photos of WFP food assistance operations in Myanmar are available here.
#                 #                   #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change. Follow WFP on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific.
Follow the Embassy of Denmark on Twitter @DKAmbMyanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/167767-denmark-bolsters-wfp-food-assistance-conflict-affected-communities-myanmar




Date: 30 December 2021
Title: Security Council Press Statement on Situation in Myanmar
Content: 30 December 2021
SC/14754
The following Security Council press statement was issued today by Council President Abdou Abarry (Niger):
The members of the Security Council condemned the reported killing of at least 35 people, including four children and two staff of Save the Children, in Kayah State on 24 December.  They stressed the need to ensure accountability for this act.
The members of the Council called for the immediate cessation of all violence and emphasized the importance of respect for human rights and of ensuring safety of civilians.  They stressed the need for safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all people in need, and for the full protection, safety and security of humanitarian and medical personnel.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their support for the people of Myanmar and the country’s democratic transition, and their strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Myanmar.

For information media. Not an official record.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/167125-security-council-press-statement-situation-myanmar




Date: 28 December 2021
Title: UNICEF condemns reported killing of at least 35 people, including four children and two humanitarian workers, in Kayah State, Myanmar
Content: 28 December 2021
BANGKOK – UNICEF is shocked and saddened by the reported killing and burning of at least 35 people, including four children and two staff members of the humanitarian organization Save the Children, in Kayah State in Eastern Myanmar, on 24 December.
Credible reports suggest that four children were killed in the attack, including two 17-year-old boys, a teenage girl and a child of approximately 5-6 years of age, of indeterminate gender.
The two Save the Children staff members, whose deaths were confirmed today, were killed while returning to Save the Children’s Loikaw office after responding to humanitarian needs in a nearby community.
“UNICEF strongly condemns this attack on civilians, children and humanitarian workers,” said Ms. Debora Comini, UNICEF Regional Director for East Asia and the Pacific.
“The protection of civilians, and particularly children and humanitarian workers, must be treated as a priority during times of conflict, in accordance with international humanitarian law and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which Myanmar is a signatory.
“UNICEF calls for urgent action to investigate this deplorable incident and to hold those responsible to account. We offer our deepest condolences to the families of the victims and to our colleagues at Save the Children.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/167134-unicef-condemns-reported-killing-least-35-people-including-four-children-and-two




Date: 27 December 2021
Title: Statement Attributable to the United Nations Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Ms. Noeleen Heyzer
Content: 27 December 2021
Statement Attributable to the United Nations Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Ms. Noeleen Heyzer.
The Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Ms. Noeleen Heyzer is deeply concerned by the continued escalation of violence in Kayin State and other parts of Myanmar, which have displaced hundreds of thousands of civilians, including women and children, many seeking refuge across borders for protection and assistance, while many more are trapped within the country.  She echoes the Security Council’s call for all parties to exercise utmost restraint and seek a peaceful solution in the interests of the people and their livelihood, recalling also the Five-Point Consensus of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) urging for an immediate cessation of violence.
The people of Myanmar have already suffered tremendously and the socio-economic and humanitarian situation has been compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Those inflicting suffering on its own people need to silence their guns and protect people in time of great need.  The future of Myanmar’s children counts on this.
The Special Envoy urges all parties to act in the greater interest of the nation and to fully respect their obligations under international humanitarian and human rights law to protect civilians, ensure free movement towards safety when needed, and allow humanitarian assistance to be provided to those in need, including those forced to flee the violence. To this end, she appeals for a New Year’s ceasefire throughout Myanmar.
Since the beginning of her assignment middle of this month, the Special Envoy has been actively consulting all stakeholders with a view to supporting a Myanmar-led process.  The Special Envoy, supported by her Office, will engage directly with and listen carefully to all those affected by the ongoing crisis that has become multi-faced with serious regional implications.
In this respect, the Special Envoy will continue to focus on mobilising coherent international support grounded on regional unity.
The Special Envoy reaffirms her full commitment to support the people of Myanmar and promoting peace.

27 December 2021
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/166652-statement-attributable-united-nations-special-envoy-secretary-general-myanmar-ms-noeleen




Date: 26 December 2021
Title: Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Martin Griffiths, Statement on Myanmar
Content: 26 December 2021
I am horrified by reports of an attack against civilians in Kayah State, Myanmar on 24 December.
Credible reports say at least 35 people, including at least one child, were forced from their vehicles, killed and burned.
Two humanitarian workers of Save the Children remain missing, having been caught up in the violence. Their private vehicle was attacked and burned.
I condemn this grievous incident and all attacks against civilians throughout the country, which are prohibited under international humanitarian law.
I call upon the authorities to immediately commence a thorough and transparent investigation into the incident so that perpetrators can be swiftly brought to justice.
Moreover, I call upon the Myanmar Armed Forces and all armed groups in Myanmar to take all measures to protect civilians from harm.
Millions of people in Myanmar remain in dire need of humanitarian support. The United Nations and its humanitarian partners remain committed to providing help throughout the country.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/166610-under-secretary-general-humanitarian-affairs-and-emergency-relief-coordinator-martin




Date: 05 December 2021
Title: Statement by Ramanathan Balakrishnan, UN Resident Coordinator a.i on Kyimyindaing violence
Content: 05 December 2021
Statement by Ramanathan Balakrishnan, UN Resident Coordinator a.i on Kyimyindaing violence
I am deeply concerned by this morning’s reported attack on a number of unarmed civilians in Kyimyindaing Township, Yangon, when a vehicle belonging to the security forces rammed into protestors who were then fired upon with live ammunition.
Initial reports indicate that a number of people were killed in the incident, while a number of others were injured. I condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms and pass on my deepest condolences to the families of all those who were killed or injured.
Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right and today’s action by security forces is completely unacceptable. Those responsible for excessive and disproportionate use of force against unarmed civilians must be held to account.
To date, more than 1,300 women, children and men have lost their lives in political violence in Myanmar since the military seized control of the democratically elected Government on 1 February.
More than 10 months on, I reiterate the words of the United Nations Secretary General who is appalled by the ongoing violence in the country and who has urged the international community to work collectively and bilaterally to help bring an end to the repression.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/161770-statement-ramanathan-balakrishnan-un-resident-coordinator-ai-kyimyindaing-violence




Date: 03 December 2021
Title: ILO calls for action to prevent violence and harassment in the workplace
Content: 03 December 2021
YANGON (ILO News) – Today, in marking the annual 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence, the ILO called on Myanmar workplaces to take action to prevent violence and harassment.
ILO Convention 190 on Violence and Harassment came into force on 25 June 2021. It is the first international treaty of its kind to recognise the right of everyone in the workplace to be free from violence and harassment. It also provides the first international definition of violence and harassment in the world of work, including gender-based violence and harassment.
Convention 190 emphasizes that in preventing and eliminating violence and harassment, States must respect, promote, and realize freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in employment.
Since the military takeover in Myanmar in February this year, the ILO is increasingly hearing reports of violence and harassment in workplaces. In addition, since the COVID-19 pandemic began last year, reported cases of violence and harassment in the workplace, particularly against women and vulnerable groups, have risen globally.
“Violence and harassment in the workplace can constitute a human rights violation and harms the health, dignity and wellbeing of everyone at work. It threatens equal opportunities, is unacceptable and incompatible with decent work.​ It is incumbent on everyone to ensure that nobody is subject to intimidation and threats of violence in the workplace. I especially call on employers to take leadership in your workplaces to ensure they are safe places for everyone”- Donglin Li, ILO Liaison Officer/Representative said.
The 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence is an international campaign that commenced on 25 November—the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. It ends on 10 December, Human Rights Day.
To find out more about ILO Convention 190, follow this link.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/161411-ilo-calls-action-prevent-violence-and-harassment-workplace




Date: 25 November 2021
Title: Joint Statement on 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence in Myanmar
Content: 25 November 2021
Globally, nearly 1 in 3 women have been abused in their lifetime. In Myanmar, although data on Violence against Women is extremely limited, estimates are that at least 21 per cent of ever-married women have experienced spousal physical, sexual, or emotional violence and only 7.8 per cent of the 15-19 years old who experienced physical and sexual violence had sought help according to the Myanmar Demographic and Health Survey (2015-2016).
In times of crises such as humanitarian crisis, conflicts, climate disasters and the COVID-19 pandemic, the prevalence of gender-based violence increases. A new report from the United Nations, based on data from 13 countries since the pandemic, shows that 2 in 3 women reported that they or a woman they know experienced some form of violence and are more likely to face food insecurity.
A state of emergency or COVID-19 restriction measures are not an excuse for violence against women and girls. The compounded crisis in Myanmar has disproportionally affected women and exacerbated the vulnerabilities of women and girls from marginalized groups; particularly, those living in conflict affected areas and in situations of internal displacement, women living with HIV/AIDS, women with disabilities, women migrant workers, and members of the LGBTQI community.
In this context, there is an urgent need to take specific measures to ensure the protection of women and girls and to increase the availability and accessibility of quality, multi-sectoral services, including health care, justice, safety, protection and social services for GBV survivors, regardless of the political and security situation. In Myanmar this requires support for the many civil society organizations, women civil society organizations and health civil society organizations in particular, who are running prevention programming and delivering services day in and day out in often incredibly complex circumstances.
Too often survivors of violence are blamed for being abused. Too often survivors of violence are stigmatized in the community. This must stop. Survivors must be heard and believed, and perpetrators must be held accountable for their actions.
Every one of us, as a change agent, can do something to end violence against women and girls.
Today is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and the beginning of the 16 Days of Activism against gender-based violence. This year’s global theme for the campaign is “Orange the world: End violence against women now!”.
On this day, UN Women and UNFPA as the co-chairs of the United Nations Gender Theme Group (UNGTG) in Myanmar re-affirm the commitment of the United Nations Country Team to remain on the ground and continue to support programs that promote gender equality and the empowerment of women, and respond to the needs of women and girls, including the provision of essential services to survivors of violence, leaving no one behind.
Every woman and girl has the right to live a life free of violence and full of dignity. It is a fundamental human right. Together, we must keep to our commitments and take action to end gender-based violence now.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/160055-joint-statement-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence-myanmar




Date: 12 November 2021
Title: Bachelet deplores persecution of journalists in Myanmar
Content: 12 November 2021
GENEVA – The conviction and harsh sentencing of journalist Danny Fenster by a military court in Yangon today following a closed door, unfair trial is emblematic of the wider plight of journalists in Myanmar who have been facing constant repression since the 1 February military coup, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet said.
At least 126 journalists, media officials or publishers have been detained by the military since 1 February, of whom 47 remain in detention. Twenty of these individuals have been charged with crimes because of their work as journalists. Nine media outlets have had their licences revoked and 20 others have had to suspend operations. Dozens of journalists reportedly remain in hiding due to outstanding arrest warrants.
Fenster was detained at Yangon airport in May, and was on Friday sentenced to 11 years in prison allegedly for violating laws relating to unlawful association, immigration and for sowing dissent against the military. He was tried by an ad hoc court inside Insein prison in Yangon, with the proceedings closed to any public scrutiny, raising serious concerns of lack of respect of fair trial guarantees. He still faces a second trial on charges of high treason and violations of the counter-terrorism law.
“Journalists have been under attack since 1 February, with the military leadership clearly attempting to suppress their attempts to report on the serious human rights violations being perpetrated across Myanmar as well as the extent of opposition to the regime,” Bachelet said. “Myanmar has quickly reverted to an environment of information control, censorship and propaganda seen under military regimes in the past.”
“Attacks on journalists and the media further exacerbate the vulnerability of huge sections of society that rely on accurate and independent information. With the crackdowns on journalists, Internet shutdowns, restrictions on free access to online and other data sources, people’s ability to access urgently needed, people are being deprived life-saving information,” Bachelet added.
“I urge the military authorities to immediately release all journalists being detained in relation to their work,” she said.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/158277-bachelet-deplores-persecution-journalists-myanmar




Date: 10 November 2021
Title: Security Council press statement on Myanmar
Content: 10 November 2021
The Members of the Security Council expressed deep concern at further recent violence across Myanmar. They called for an immediate cessation of violence and to ensure the safety of civilians.
The Members of the Security Council underlined the importance of steps to improve the health and humanitarian situation in Myanmar, including to facilitate the equitable, safe and unhindered delivery and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines. They called for full, safe and unhindered humanitarian access to all people in need, and for the full protection, safety and security of humanitarian and medical personnel. They underlined that vaccines should be accessible to all and called for greater international support to ensure the availability of COVID-19 vaccines and to expedite their roll out.
The Members of the Security Council reiterated their full support for ASEAN’s positive and constructive role in facilitating a peaceful solution in the interest of the people of Myanmar and their livelihoods. The Members of the Security Council reiterated their calls for the swift and full implementation of ASEAN’s Five Point Consensus. They underlined their support for the ASEAN Special Envoy and looked forward to his visit to Myanmar at the earliest opportunity to meet with all parties concerned and carry out mediation that facilitates the dialogue process and the provision of humanitarian assistance by ASEAN. They encouraged complementarity between the UN Special Envoy and ASEAN efforts.
The Members of the Security Council again expressed concern that recent developments pose particular serious challenges for the voluntary, safe, dignified, and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees and internally displaced persons.
The Members of the Security Council reaffirmed their support for the people of Myanmar and the country’s democratic transition, and their strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Myanmar.
The Members of the Security Council recalling their Press Statement SC/14430 of 4 February 2021 and Presidential Statement S/PRST/2021/5 of 10 March, reiterated their deep concern at developments in Myanmar following the declaration of the state of emergency imposed on 1 February and their call on the military to exercise utmost restraint. They encouraged the pursuance of dialogue and reconciliation in accordance with the will and interests of the people of Myanmar.
The Members of the Security Council stressed that they continued to monitor the situation closely.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/158097-security-council-press-statement-myanmar




Date: 09 November 2021
Title: Statement from ERC Martin Griffiths regarding the increasing violence and  humanitarian need in Myanmar
Content: 09 November 2021
The humanitarian situation in Myanmar is deteriorating. Across the country, there are now more than 3 million people in need of life-saving humanitarian assistance because of growing conflict and insecurity, COVID-19 and a failing economy. Without an end to violence and a peaceful resolution of Myanmar’s crisis, this number will only rise.
Since the 1 February military takeover, hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to flee their homes due to violence across the country, and 223,000 people remain internally displaced. This includes 165,000 in the south-east of the country and is on top of a significant population of people who were already displaced in Rakhine, Chin, Shan and Kachin states prior to the takeover.
Long-term displacement remains unresolved, with 144,000 Rohingya people still confined to camps and camp-like settings in Rakhine, many since their displacement in 2012, and more than 105,000 people displaced in Kachin and Shan, many for years. I am also increasingly concerned about reports of rising levels of food insecurity in and around urban areas, including in Yangon and Mandalay.
In recent weeks, the situation in the north-west of the country has become extremely concerning, with an escalation in hostilities between the Myanmar Armed Forces and the Chinland Defence Force in Chin state, and with the People’s Defence Forces in Magway and Sagaing regions. More than 37,000 people, including women and children, have been newly displaced, and more than 160 homes have been burned, including churches and the offices of a humanitarian organization. Attacks directed against civilians and civilian infrastructure, including humanitarian workers and facilities, are clearly prohibited under international humanitarian law and must stop immediately.
Humanitarian workers are providing assistance to those in need across Myanmar. So far this year they have reached more than 1.67 million people with food, cash and nutrition assistance. They stand ready to do more but remain constrained by lack of humanitarian access and funds. Access to many people in desperate need across the country remains extremely limited due to bureaucratic impediments put in place by the armed forces. I call on the Myanmar armed forces — and all parties — to facilitate safe, rapid and unimpeded humanitarian access.
I also call on the international community to fund the response. Less than half of the US$385 million required under the Humanitarian Response Plan and Interim Emergency Response Plan launched after the armed forces’ takeover has been received. The people of Myanmar need our help to ensure that their basic rights are upheld and they can live with dignity.
The world is watching. I urge all parties to fully respect their obligations under international humanitarian and human rights law to protect civilians, ensure civilians can freely move towards safety when needed, and allow humanitarian assistance to be provided to those in need, including those being forced to flee the violence.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/157365-statement-erc-martin-griffiths-regarding-increasing-violence-and-humanitarian-need-myanmar




Date: 29 October 2021
Title: Myanmar: Child Rights Violations Must Stop Now
Content: 29 October 2021
Joint Statement by the UN Special Envoy on Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, Virginia Gamba, and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Violence against Children, Dr. Najat Maalla M’jid

The 1 February military takeover, led by the Commander in Chief of the Tatmadaw, halted Myanmar’s peaceful democratic transition and caused a violent ongoing multi-faceted crisis with grave impacts for children and their future. In the absence of peaceful and inclusive dialogue to end this situation, and the lack of unified international response, the United Nations continues to receive alarming reports of a growing number of children and youth seeking to join armed groups, while others have been displaced, detained, or are suffering.
The abuse of children by all parties to the conflict in Myanmar has increased notably through the recruitment use and killing and maiming of children, in addition to ongoing attacks on schools and hospitals and protected personnel. The arbitrary detention of children is also a serious concern, while all children in Myanmar and those displaced by the fighting are experiencing various degrees of violence including mental and physical degradation. We urge all parties in Myanmar to immediately stop all child rights violations, retain, and enact domestic legislation criminalizing the six grave violations, promote all aspects of the Child Rights Law, and engage collectively in the protection of children from the ravages of conflict, including the prevention of their recruitment and use.
The delivery of life-saving humanitarian assistance for children in Myanmar has also been impaired by the crisis mainly through access and security constraints, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Unrestricted humanitarian access to children must be granted through all existing channels in line with the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality, and independence. The United Nations calls on all parties to exercise utmost restraint to protect children and to respect their responsibilities under international law. Children should never, under any circumstances, be recruited or used in hostilities. The prohibition of the six grave violations against children in armed conflict must guide prevention efforts in Myanmar.
The desperate situation of children in Myanmar and those displaced in neighboring countries, in particular the Rohingya children in Bangladesh, demands greater attention from the international community as well as from regional actors. The protection of children’s rights should remain a key priority by all stakeholders across the globe. Violence against children including their use and abuse by parties to armed conflict in Myanmar must stop. The children of Myanmar have the right to no less.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/156342-myanmar-child-rights-violations-must-stop-now




Date: 28 October 2021
Title: European Union Reinforces WFP Response to Rising Food Insecurity in Myanmar
Content: 28 October 2021
YANGON – The European Union has contributed EUR 4 million to help the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) respond to the rising humanitarian needs in Myanmar. Over 370,000 people in Chin, Kachin, Rakhine, and Shan states have received life-saving food and nutrition support since the beginning of 2021, thanks to the generous contribution.
The funding, made through the Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO), came at a critical time when the country was engulfed by multiple shocks, including conflict, political unrest, and the socio-economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The country’s food situation has deteriorated dramatically over the past year,” said Luc Verna, who oversees EU humanitarian programmes in Myanmar. “This latest EU support will help bolster WFP’s readiness and ability to scale up its food assistance to people in need, despite the increasing difficulties for humanitarian actors to gain access to vulnerable people in Myanmar.”
Recent WFP monitoring in Myanmar shows that vulnerable families in both urban and border areas are increasingly affected by ongoing shocks. Many are resorting to skipping meals, selling off assets and borrowing money just to buy food.
“Food insecurity is approaching unprecedented levels across Myanmar where rising food prices and reduced income opportunities are undermining the ability of many families to put daily food on their table. We greatly appreciate the European Union’s timely humanitarian support, which allows WFP to step up much-needed food assistance to the most vulnerable,” said Stephen Anderson, WFP Country Director and Representative in Myanmar.
While WFP support to vulnerable populations in border areas remains critical, securing sustained access to the many tens of thousands of people uprooted by recent armed clashes in Chin, Kayah, southern Shan, Magway and Sagaing is a top priority for humanitarian partners in Myanmar.
#                                             #                                             #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change. Follow WFP on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
About EU Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid:
The European Union and its Member States are the world's leading donor of humanitarian aid. Relief assistance is an expression of European solidarity with people in need all around the world. It aims to save lives, prevent and alleviate human suffering, and safeguard the integrity and human dignity of populations affected by natural disasters and man-made crises.
Through its Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations department, the European Union helps millions of victims of conflict and disasters every year. With headquarters in Brussels and a global network of field offices, the EU provides assistance to the most vulnerable people on the basis of humanitarian needs.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/156006-european-union-reinforces-wfp-response-rising-food-insecurity-myanmar




Date: 08 October 2021
Title: Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights: Ravina Shamdasani
Content: 08 October 2021
Briefing Notes: Myanmar
Alarming reports indicate that there has been substantial deployment of heavy weapons and troops by the Myanmar military, the Tatmadaw, over the past few weeks in Kanpetlet and Hakha townships in Chin State; Kani and Monywa townships in the central Sagaing region; and Gangaw township in Magway.. Two high-level commanders have also been deployed to the area and the Internet has been shut down.
We are gravely concerned by these developments, particularly given the intensifying attacks by the military that we have documented over the past month in these areas, including killings, raiding of villages and burning of houses, apparently to seek out armed resistance elements and as reprisals against villages perceived to be sympathetic to people’s defence forces or ethnic armed groups. There have been reports of mass arrests, as well as torture and summary executions. Military “clearance operations” have involved the use of artillery barrages and airstrikes against villages. The Internet shutdowns have also meant that millions of people have lost the means to communicate and obtain information necessary for their survival, and cast an information blackout over potential abuses.
As the High Commissioner has already noted, there has been an established pattern of attacks by the Tatmadaw against unarmed individuals using lethal force, destruction of residential properties, mass arbitrary detention and deaths in military custody. We urge the international community to speak with one voice, to prevent the commission of further serious human rights violations against the people of Myanmar.  Influential states must prevail on the Tatmadaw to de-escalate the situation, protect civilian lives and property, and ensure access to humanitarian aid for those who need it.
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/150637-spokesperson-un-high-commissioner-human-rights-ravina-shamdasani




Date: 23 September 2021
Title: Myanmar: UN report calls for urgent action to end human rights catastrophe
Content: 23 September 2021
GENEVA – Urgent action is needed to prevent the situation in Myanmar from spiraling into a full-blown conflict, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet said on Thursday. Her warning came in a new report* from the UN Human Rights Office detailing widespread violations by the military – the Tatmadaw – against Myanmar’s people, some of which may constitute crimes against humanity or war crimes.
Released for the 48th regular session of the UN Human Rights Council, the report describes the situation in Myanmar, which is also facing an economy in freefall and the devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic – as “a human rights catastrophe that shows no signs of abating.”
Relying heavily on the use of lethal force and mass arrests, military authorities have perpetrated the vast majority of human rights violations documented since the 1 February coup. Serious violations have been committed – of the rights to life, liberty and security of person, the prohibition against torture, the right to a fair trial, as well as the rights to freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly. In recent weeks, there has been further intensification of military activity, as well as resistance by armed groups.
“There is no sign of any efforts by the military authorities to stop these violations nor implement previous recommendations to tackle impunity and security sector reform,” High Commissioner Michelle Bachelet said. “This underscores the urgent need for strong accountability measures. It also runs in the face of commitments made to ASEAN leaders to cease the violence and begin a constructive dialogue among all parties,” she added, referring to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
The report, which covers the period ranging from the coup until mid-July, is based on interviews with over 70 victims and witnesses to human rights violations, as well as remote monitoring, credible open sources, and meetings with a range of stakeholders.
When peaceful protests began nationwide in February, military authorities initially used less-lethal weapons in an unnecessary and disproportionate manner and conducted neighbourhood raids, creating an atmosphere of terror. But the tactics swiftly evolved into systematic, targeted killings and relying on lethal force - including semi-automatic rifles and snipers against protesters. More than 1,120 people have been killed since the coup.
In multiple incidents on 27 March, for example, as the nation marked Armed Forces Day, the military attacked peaceful protesters in 12 of Myanmar's 15 states, regions and union territory, killing at least 130 people in the single bloodiest day since the coup. Opening fire without warning, security forces shot people as they were running away or helping the injured. Among the dead were at least 17 children.
Victims of attacks carried out by security forces have often sustained wounds to their heads and torsos, indicating that they were targeted for maximum harm. Security forces have attacked medical equipment and facilities and health workers.
The military has also used, against protesters, weapons that are designed to be employed in military confrontations. On 9 April, security forces in the central town of Bago fired grenade launchers and artillery shells into residential areas where demonstrators had erected roadblocks, reportedly killing at least 82 people.
Military authorities have also arrested over 8,000 people, including elected officials, protesters and journalists during arrests and raids. At least 120 people have reportedly died in custody, and some have been denied access to medical treatment.
Credible reports indicate that security forces have consistently used interrogation techniques that may amount to torture or ill-treatment, among them beating detainees, depriving them of food, water and sleep for days at a time.
The military's use of lethal force against protesters has prompted some opponents of the coup to take up arms, leading to clashes across the country.
Fighting between the military and ethnic armed groups has also increased exponentially since the coup, displacing thousands, particularly in Kayin, Shan and Kachin State, where the military has carried out indiscriminate airstrikes and artillery barrages, killing civilians.
“The national consequences are terrible and tragic – the regional consequences could also be profound," Bachelet said. “The international community must redouble its efforts to restore democracy and prevent wider conflict before it is too late.”
ENDS
* Full report to the Human Rights Council
Bachelet’s statement to the Human Rights Council delivered at 10h00 Thursday (23 September 2021) in Geneva
Video interview James Rodehaver, head of the Myanmar team at the UN Human Rights Office:
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/146439-myanmar-un-report-calls-urgent-action-end-human-rights-catastrophe




Date: 06 August 2021
Title: Funding gaps hampers WFP's lifesaving operations as hunger deepens in Myanmar
Content: 06 August 2021
YANGON – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) today warned that its lifesaving operations in Myanmar are being held back by a major funding shortfall, with over 70 percent of its funding needs over the coming six months still unmet.
A massive wave of COVID-19 infections currently surging throughout the country is compounding hunger, as families struggle amid job losses, rising food and fuel prices, political unrest, violence and displacement.
In April, WFP estimated that the number of people facing hunger could more than double to 6.2 million in the next six months, up from 2.8 million prior to February. Subsequent monitoring surveys carried out by WFP have shown that since February, more and more families are being pushed to the edge, struggling to put even the most basic food on the table.
“We have seen hunger spreading further and deeper in Myanmar. Nearly 90 percent of households living in slum-like settlements around Yangon say they have to borrow money to buy food; incomes have been badly affected for many,” said WFP Myanmar Country Director Stephen Anderson.
Starting in May, WFP launched a new urban food response, targeting 2 million people in Yangon and Mandalay, Myanmar’s two biggest cities. The majority of people to receive assistance are mothers, children, people with disabilities and the elderly. To date, 650,000 people have been assisted in urban areas.
More than 220,000 people have fled violence since February, and are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. WFP has reached 17,500 newly-displaced people and is working to assist more in August. In total, 1.25 million people in Myanmar have received WFP food, cash and nutrition assistance in 2021 across urban and rural areas.
However, with US$86 million more required over the next six months, it is uncertain how far these operations can go.
“The people of Myanmar are facing their most difficult moment in living memory. It is critically important for us to be able to access to all those in need and receive the funding to provide them with humanitarian assistance,” Anderson explained.
“Now more than ever, the people of Myanmar need our support. We are deeply grateful for the backing of the international community – the people of Myanmar will never forget your generosity and solidarity.,” said Anderson.
Broadcast quality footage available here.
Photos available here.
Long-form story available on wfp.org here.
WFP Yangon food security monitoring – May 2021 available here.
# # #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/139095-funding-gaps-hampers-wfps-lifesaving-operations-hunger-deepens-myanmar




Date: 06 August 2021
Title: UNOPS-managed Livelihoods and Food Security Fund estimates that one in six Myanmar workers in low-skilled employment is in a situation of forced labour
Content: 06 August 2021
Yangon, Myanmar - In the first major study on the prevalence of forced labour in Myanmar since 2015, the UNOPS-managed Livelihoods and Food Security Fund (LIFT) shows that one in six workers in low-skilled employment is in a situation of forced labour due to multiple gaps in existing labour protection frameworks.
The LIFT-funded report From the Rice Paddy to the Industrial Park: Working Conditions and Forced Labour in Myanmar’s Rapidly Shifting Labour Market assesses the practical experiences of over 2,400 low skilled workers in relation to freedom of association, wage protection, equal treatment of women, access to justice and other key labour rights.
The study reveals that despite advances being made in increasing workers’ rights, 91 percent of interviewed workers had no formal contract and 93 per cent of workers had no access to social security. This is largely attributed to the decades under neglect - leading up to 2000 - when workers in Myanmar were left without access to basic rights and unprotected by an outdated legislative framework. While reforms to labour governance were initiated in 2010, the labour market itself has continued to be dominated by informality and poor working conditions.
The research findings showed an alarming prevalence of the two elements of forced labour, ‘involuntary work’, experienced by a staggering 63 per cent of workers and ‘threat or menace of penalty’ among low-skilled workers reported by 19 percent of respondents.
Not being told about dangerous working conditions (32 per cent), working for very low wages (25 percent), degrading living conditions in employer-provided housing (16 per cent) and a job that differed to what was agreed upon (11 per cent) are named as the most common forms of involuntary work. These and other findings suggest a high prevalence of exploitative employment practices and a lack of decent work opportunities for workers which are compounded by considerable practical restrictions on freedom of association and collective bargaining as well as by limitations in the reach or effectiveness of available assistance.
The study also provides evidence of the informality of the labour market information system, with over 50 per cent of workers reporting having found jobs by word of mouth and 47 per cent securing their employment through direct hire by the employer. Only (1 per cent) of workers interviewed were recruited through a labour broker (pwe sar in Myanmar language).
The COVID-19 pandemic further accentuated workers’ vulnerabilities with the survey finding that nearly three-quarters of low-skilled workers (73 per cent) reported some reduction in income during COVID-19, while (43 per cent) lost their jobs entirely.
Following the 1 February military takeover of government and the current COVID-19 third wave there has been a further dramatic rise in unemployment amounting to up to 1.2 million job losses in the second quarter of 2021. The sectors hardest hit are those that are the focus of this study, construction, garments, tourism and hospitality. All indications are that the unfolding political and socio-economic crisis will roll back years of hard-fought gains made in expanding labour protection during recent years, particularly through the suppression of trade unions and labour organisations.
“The study provides a critical line in the sand for the status of working conditions before the military’s declaration of a state of emergency and the outbreak of the third wave of COVID-19,” remarked LIFT Fund Director Katy Webley. “The situation of forced labour in Myanmar was significant before 1 February, but there were many individuals and organisations working together to create a momentum of change; the past few months however have seen the situation deteriorate dramatically.”
Mass loss of employment and increased desperation for income will increase the vulnerability of Myanmar’s workers to exploitative labour practices and forced labour both in Myanmar and abroad. The impact of the political situation on workers in Myanmar must continue to be monitored closely with decisive actions taken to ensure that fundamental labour rights are safeguarded from abuse. LIFT’s donors remain committed to supporting the resilience and sustainable livelihoods of poor and vulnerable groups in Myanmar.
The research report can be viewed here: From the Rice Paddy to the Industrial Park: Working Conditions and Forced Labour in Myanmar’s Rapidly Shifting Labour Market
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/138987-unops-managed-livelihoods-and-food-security-fund-estimates-one-six-myanmar-workers-low




Date: 01 August 2021
Title: Joint statement from UNFPA and UN Women in Myanmar: impacts of the compounded political and health crisis on women and girls in Myanmar
Content: 01 August 2021
Yangon – Six months since the military takeover in Myanmar, the country faces a compounded political and public health crisis, on top of intensification of conflicts, putting the lives of even more women and girls at serious risk with the deteriorating socio-economic situation adding hundreds of thousands of people to those in need of humanitarian assistance in the country who were not previously targeted for humanitarian support.
Since February 1, women and girls have been at the frontlines as leaders of civil society organizations, civil servants, activists, journalists, artists and influencers, exercising their fundamental rights to express their hopes for the future of their country. Even before the coup, women, who make up 75 per cent of Myanmar’s healthcare professionals, were at the forefront of the COVID-19 response. Now, during a tragic surge in COVID-19 cases, many women continue in their activism and serve their communities while also assuming significant responsibilities as caregivers for sick family members, and for their children’s home-based learning.
Women and children are also expected to bear the heaviest brunt of the combined crises with those most at-risk including single women, pregnant and breastfeeding women and girls, ethnic and religious minorities, older persons, people with disabilities, children and people of diverse gender identities and sexual orientations.
The impact on women workers has already been pronounced with 580,000 women estimated to have lost employment since February 1. Women and girls experience challenges to access sexual and reproductive health services due to the collapsed health system, with attacks on hospitals, financial barriers and movement restrictions further jeopardizing their health and well-being. Over 685,000 women are currently pregnant in Myanmar and it is estimated that nearly 250 preventable maternal deaths may occur in the next month alone if they are not able to access appropriate emergency obstetric care. Furthermore, the adolescence of over almost five million girls (10 to 19 years old) in Myanmar has been seriously disrupted by public-health, loss of school-year, and security-related restrictions and fears.
LGBTIQ+ populations have flagged serious concerns about their mental health and wellbeing before the coup, and these concerns are now heightened. Moreover, with continued arbitrary arrests and detainment of women and girls and people of diverse gender identities and sexual orientations, serious protection concerns persist with continued reports of sexual harassment and of sexual violence perpetrated against activists and detainees. Conflict-related sexual violence remains a key risk given recent reports on top of evidence of widespread previous allegations.
Non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations and women’s organizations/activists have been working very hard to respond to all these increasing safety, health and protection risks faced by women, girls, young people and people of diverse gender identities and sexual orientation. While the need to provide support to these population groups increases, the operational environment is becoming more and more challenging due to the ongoing conflict/insecurity as well as the COVID-19 pandemic, in addition to the banking crisis and the access restrictions.
UNFPA and UN Women as co-chairs of the UN Gender Thematic Group in Myanmar stand in solidarity with the women and girls of Myanmar and urge all stakeholders in Myanmar and abroad to listen to their voices and uphold commitments to international human rights for all people. We reiterate the UN Secretary-General’s call to release all who have been arbitrarily detained and echo the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence to end all forms of violence against women and girls. We will continue to work with our partners to deliver life-saving social and health services to reach women and girls in Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/138255-joint-statement-unfpa-and-un-women-myanmar-impacts-compounded-political-and-health-crisis




Date: 19 July 2021
Title: UN Country Team in Myanmar Steps up COVID-19 Response Efforts
Content: 19 July 2021
(Yangon) - The UN Country Team in Myanmar is stepping up its response efforts following an alarming spike in the reported number of COVID-19 cases in the country.
Even with very limited testing and people experiencing difficulties in accessing testing, 5497 new cases were reported on July 17 bringing the test positivity rate to 39.12 per cent compared to 22.34 per cent two weeks earlier. In addition, several COVID-19 variants have been detected, including the highly transmissible Delta variant.
Stay-at-home orders in over 70 townships across Myanmar have been imposed, as well as nationwide public holidays declared from 17-25 July in efforts to curb virus spread. Access to hospital beds and oxygen is limited due to insufficient supplies and manpower.
The UN Country Team is working to address the oxygen shortage through the procurement of oxygen concentrators and other necessary equipment through multiple channels.
The immediate scaling up of the provision of critical health services and COVID-19 vaccination efforts, remains an urgent priority.
WHO, UNICEF and partners are redoubling their efforts to accelerate COVID-19 vaccination availability through multiple channels, including through the COVAX facility. Myanmar is expected to receive enough COVID-19 vaccines through the COVAX facility during 2021 to cover 20 per cent of the population which is required to be distributed according to WHO guidelines for prioritizing vaccination.  The first batch of these vaccines is expected in the current round of allocations.
Efforts are underway to re-operationalize testing and COVID-19 treatment centres are being established with available resources and capacities.
Currently, COVID-19 testing is occurring in states and regions at the rate of 12,000-15,000 tests per day.  With testing at limited levels, however, many cases are expected to be unreported.
The current outbreak of COVID-19 is expected to have devastating consequences for the health of the population and for the economy. A renewed ‘whole of society’ approach is needed now more than ever, allowing all health professionals to work in safety, and both public and private providers enabled to contribute to the response.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/136671-un-country-team-myanmar-steps-covid-19-response-efforts




Date: 25 June 2021
Title: UN Special Representative Patten expresses grave concern over reports of  sexual violence in detention setting in Myanmar
Content: 25 June 2021
New York: United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict, Pramila Patten, strongly condemns the Myanmar military’s widespread and systematic attacks against civilians, especially women and children, as well as other serious violations of human rights since it seized power on 1 February 2021.
Night raids, arbitrary arrests, sieges of townships and neighborhoods, torture and deaths in detention, attacks on locations and sites where civilians are gathered or have fled, and reports of sexual violence in detention sites, particularly sexual assault, torture, physical and verbal abuse and intimidation, have become an alarming feature of daily life. These alleged reports of sexual violence may amount to violations of international criminal law for those who commit, command, or condone them.
The patterns of sexual violence perpetrated by the Tatmadaw against women from ethnic and religious minority groups, as well as against individuals on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender identity, as documented by the UN Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar, is extremely concerning. These patterns of sexual violence have also been documented in successive reports of the Secretary-General on conflict-related sexual violence to the UN Security Council since 2011. In 2017, the UN Secretary-General listed the Tatmadaw as a party “credibly suspected of committing or being responsible for patterns of rape or other forms of sexual violence in armed conflict on the agenda of the Security Council” and, with its integrated Border Guard, remains listed to this day.
Special Representative Patten urges the Tatmadaw to cease all acts of sexual violence with immediate effect, which it is required to do following its listing in 2017 and pursuant to UN Security Council resolution 2106 (2013). Relatedly, an arms embargo is also a critical step towards ensuring the cessation of sexual violence. Special Representative Patten recalls that in December 2018, a Joint Communiqué to address and prevent sexual violence in conflict was signed between the then Government of Myanmar and the United Nations. Myanmar is also a signatory to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), which entails a positive obligation to prevent, investigate, prosecute, punish and provide reparations for acts of gender-based violence.
“The emerging reports of sexual violence in detention settings are very disturbing. I call for an end to all forms of violence against women, as well as unimpeded access to independently investigate the alleged reports.” Special Representative Patten said.
At a time when Myanmar faces a continued threat from the spread of COVID-19, and access to public health services has been severely impacted by the political crisis, some public health facilities have also suspended their operations due to serious concerns related to attacks on, and the occupation and looting of health facilities and hospitals. “The current crisis is disrupting essential health and social services, including safe pregnancy and childbirth. In the midst of this civilian suffering, and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, it is essential that appropriate multi-sectoral services are available to all civilians including non-discriminatory care for survivors of sexual violence, and unimpeded access for humanitarian actors to provide essential lifesaving services,” SRSG Patten added.
“I recognize and commend women’s rights organizations who are on the frontlines providing services and support at a time of heightened individual and collective security risks. The dignity and safety of survivors is paramount including access to timely medical care, as reinforced by Security Council Resolution 2467 (2019). My Office stands ready to support the UN SecretaryGeneral’s renewed call to respect the will of the people and act in the greater interest of peace and stability in the country.”

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/133450-un-special-representative-patten-expresses-grave-concern-over-reports-sexual-violence




Date: 17 June 2021
Title: UN in Myanmar Alarmed at Sharp Deterioration of Human Rights Environment
Content: 17 June 2021
(Yangon) – The UN in Myanmar is alarmed at recent acts of violence that illustrate a sharp deterioration of the human rights environment across Myanmar.

One such case is the discovery of two mass graves in Myawaddy Township (Kayin State), containing the human remains of twenty-five people who had reportedly been detained on 31 May by the Karen National Defense Organization (KNDO).  Another case is the reported burning by security forces of more than 150 homes in Kin Ma Village in Pauk Township (Magway Region) on 15 June, leaving two dead and approximately 1,000 people homeless.
The United Nations in Myanmar reiterates its call on all actors in the current crisis to ensure that international human rights norms and standards are respected.  This includes upholding the obligation to minimize collateral harm to civilians and to civilian infrastructure, and prohibiting the application of collective punishments against communities, families or individuals.
The United Nations in Myanmar calls for those responsible for human rights violations to be held accountable, including the perpetrators and their chain of command.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/131929-un-myanmar-alarmed-sharp-deterioration-human-rights-environment




Date: 11 June 2021
Title: Bachelet issues strong warning of imminent further bloodshed and suffering in Myanmar
Content: 11 June 2021
GENEVA – UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet on Friday warned that a further escalation in violence is unfolding across Myanmar and must be halted to prevent even greater loss of life and a deepening humanitarian emergency. Reports indicate a military build-up, notably in Kayah State in the east and Chin State in the west of the country.
“As I had feared, armed conflict and other violence are intensifying in many parts of Myanmar, including Kayah State, Chin State and Kachin State, with the violence particularly intense in areas with significant ethnic and religious minority groups,” Bachelet said. “State security forces have continued to use heavy weaponry, including airstrikes, against armed groups and against civilians and civilian objects, including Christian churches.
“There appear to be no efforts towards de-escalation but rather a build-up of troops in key areas, contrary to the commitments the military made to ASEAN to cease the violence.”
Credible reports indicate that security forces have used civilians as human shields, shelled civilian homes and churches in Loikaw, Phekon and Demoso in Kayah State and blocked humanitarian access, including by attacking humanitarian actors.
“More than 108,000 people have fled their homes in Kayah State over the last three weeks alone, many into forest areas with little or no food, water, sanitation or medical care. These are people in urgent need of humanitarian assistance,” Bachelet said.
“Myanmar’s military, the Tatmadaw, have a duty to protect civilians. The international community needs to unify in its demand that the Tatmadaw cease the outrageous use of heavy artillery against civilians and civilian objects and respect the principle of distinction. The newly formed “people’s defence forces” and other armed groups must also take all feasible measures to protect civilians.”
The High Commissioner appealed for hospitals, schools and places of worship to be protected throughout the country. The Office has received credible reports of several incidents in which hospitals, schools and religious institutions have been entered and occupied by the Tatmadaw, fired upon and damaged in military actions.
Explosions that have occurred in or near schools are likely to dissuade parents from enrolling their children for the new school year.  Thousands of schoolteachers have refused to return to work or have been suspended from their jobs by the military authorities. As a result, the vast majority of children will not be able to access their right to education.
Credible reports indicate that a minimum of 860 people have been killed by security forces since 1 February, mostly in the context of protests.
Meanwhile, sweeping arrests of activists, journalists and opponents of the regime have continued across the country, with credible sources indicating that at least 4,804 people remain in arbitrary detention. The High Commissioner said she was also deeply troubled by reports of detainees being tortured, and of collective punishment of family members of activists – one mother of an activist was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment in place of her son on 28 May.
“Rather than seeking dialogue, the military is branding its opponents as ‘terrorists’ and pursuing politically-motivated charges against the democratic leadership,” Bachelet said.
The High Commissioner encouraged the intensification of regional diplomacy, including by ASEAN and other influential States, to insist on the immediate cessation of violence and ongoing human rights violations. Dialogue is urgently needed with the National Unity Government and civil society stakeholders.
“In just over four months, Myanmar has gone from being a fragile democracy to a human rights catastrophe. In addition to the loss of life, people are suffering from severe impacts on the social and economic rights. The military leadership is singularly responsible for this crisis, and must be held to account,” Bachelet said.
The High Commissioner will be updating the UN Human Rights Council on the situation in Myanmar on 7 July.
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/131176-bachelet-issues-strong-warning-imminent-further-bloodshed-and-suffering-myanmar




Date: 08 June 2021
Title: Statement by the United Nations in Myanmar on the humanitarian situation in the south-east
Content: 08 June 2021
(Yangon): The United Nations in Myanmar is concerned about the rapidly deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in Kayah State and other areas in southeastern Myanmar.
Recent violence in Kayah State, including indiscriminate attacks by security forces against civilian areas, has led to the internal displacement of an estimated 100,000 men, women and children. Many of them are currently seeking safety in host communities and forests across Kayah and southern parts of neighboring Shan state. This crisis could push people across international borders seeking safety, as already seen in other parts of the country.
The United Nations reiterates its earlier calls for all parties to urgently take the necessary measures and precautions to protect civilians and civilian infrastructure, particularly protected objects such as medical units and personnel, and to adhere to the fundamental principles of distinction, necessity, proportionality and protection.
People fleeing and those remaining in locations affected by ongoing hostilities are in urgent need of food, water, shelter, fuel and access to healthcare. The United Nations and its partners have humanitarian supplies, including food, shelter materials and other basic relief items ready to be deployed to complement the local response, which has been immediate, but insufficient to address all needs, particularly for those persons in remote locations. Ongoing insecurity, travel restrictions imposed by security forces, and poor road conditions, however, are delaying the delivery of these supplies.
The United Nations calls on the security forces to allow safe passage of humanitarian supplies and personnel and to facilitate the direct provision of relief assistance by the UN and its partners to all those in need in Kayah, as well as other states and regions across the country where there are urgent humanitarian needs.
The United Nations reiterates the Secretary General’s call for a global ceasefire made in March 2020 and to join forces to respond to the growing risk of another outbreak of COVID-19 and other humanitarian and health challenges.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/130473-statement-united-nations-myanmar-humanitarian-situation-south-east




Date: 21 May 2021
Title: Statement by the United Nations in Myanmar on the situation in Mindat, Chin State
Content: 21 May 2021
(Yangon): The United Nations in Myanmar is alarmed by the humanitarian impact of ongoing violence in the town of Mindat in Chin State in western Myanmar, following reports of indiscriminate attacks by the security forces against civilians and resulting population displacement and civilian casualties.
Local sources indicated that close to 4,000 people have been internally displaced since the hostilities escalated in the town of Mindat on 12 May, with an unconfirmed number, believed to be in thousands, hiding in nearby forests and mountains in search of safety and protection. A higher number of civilians remain in Mindat as they were reportedly not allowed to leave during the height of the hostilities.
There are reports of houses and other civilian property damaged, destroyed or occupied by security forces. An unconfirmed number of men, women, and children have lost their lives or sustained injuries because of the violence.  The United Nations is also concerned by reports about the security forces using civilians as human shields and incidents of sexual assault perpetrated against women and girls.
People who have already fled and others who remain are in urgent need of food, water, shelter, access to healthcare and gender-based violence and psychological support. The United Nations and humanitarian partners are making efforts to assess and address these needs; however, humanitarian access challenges, including due to insecurity and road blockages, are complicating these efforts.
The United Nations calls on security forces to urgently take all necessary measures and precautions to spare civilians and civilian infrastructure, and to adhere to the fundamental principles of distinction, necessity, proportionality and protection.
We also call upon security forces to allow civilians who choose to leave areas of danger to do so without obstruction or delay, securing their safety, and to ensure that those who are injured are transferred to a medical facility situated in a safe area.
We urge everyone involved to facilitate the delivery of relief by the United Nations and all humanitarian partners to people fleeing the violence, those trapped in their homes and everyone affected, by ensuring safe and unhindered humanitarian access.
The United Nations reiterates its strong commitment to continue making all efforts to provide humanitarian assistance and protection services to people in need wherever they may be, guided by the internationally recognized principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/127320-statement-united-nations-myanmar-situation-mindat-chin-state




Date: 14 May 2021
Title: New contribution from Japan helps WFP fight hunger in Myanmar's impoverished urban townships
Content: 14 May 2021
YANGON, MYANMAR – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) today welcomed a US$4 million contribution from the Government of Japan to support families struggling to meet their basic food needs.
The contribution will help WFP provide assistance to some 600,000 people in Yangon Region. Food rations will be delivered directly into the hands of vulnerable families as part of WFP’s new operation for 2 million people in the poorest townships of Myanmar’s urban areas. The distribution started on 13 May in Yangon’s Hlaing Tharyar township.
“The Government of Japan supports WFP’s strenuous efforts in tackling hunger in Myanmar. Thanks to WFP’s initiative, this assistance from the people of Japan will directly reach the most vulnerable population in the urban and peri-urban poor areas. The Government and people of Japan will continue standing with the people of Myanmar,” said H.E. Mr Maruyama Ichiro, the Japanese Ambassador to Myanmar.
WFP estimates that up to 3.4 million more people, particularly those in urban areas, will face hunger within the next six months due to the triple impact of pre-existing poverty, COVID-19 and the ongoing political crisis.
“We are deeply thankful to the people and Government of Japan, who has been a steadfast partner for WFP over the years,” said WFP Myanmar Country Director Stephen Anderson. “At this critical time, they once again stepped forward, extending compassion and support to the people of Myanmar. Generous contributions like this are integral in helping us prevent a large-scale humanitarian crisis from unfolding.”
Earlier this year, Japan provided US$7.7 million – US$4.7 million in January, and US$3 million in March – towards WFP’s ongoing food and nutrition support for people displaced by conflict in Chin, Kachin, Shan and Rakhine states.
#                                  #                                  #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/126862-new-contribution-japan-helps-wfp-fight-hunger-myanmars-impoverished-urban-townships




Date: 11 May 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Myanmar
Content: 11 May 2021
New York - One hundred days since the Myanmar military takeover that has left hundreds of civilians killed and included numerous arbitrary arrests and other human rights violations, the Secretary-General renews his call on the country's military to respect the will of the people and act in the greater interest of peace and stability in the country.
The Secretary-General also encourages ASEAN to swiftly follow through on its own commitments, and the international community to support regional efforts, to bring an end to the repression by the military. He also calls on the international community to respond to the increased humanitarian needs.
The Secretary-General’s Special Envoy, Christine Schraner Burgener, is in the region and continues to engage intensively with a range of key stakeholders, including in light of the broader ramifications of the crisis. She continues to promote coherent international action.
The Secretary-General will continue to stand with the people of Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/126738-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 05 May 2021
Title: UN Reiterates Call for Health Workers and Facilities to be Protected
Content: 05 May 2021
(Yangon) - The United Nations in Myanmar warns of the impact on public health, including the COVID-19 response, from attacks on medical personnel and facilities, and reiterates its call for health workers, health facilities and patients to be protected.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO) global surveillance system, since the beginning of February there have been 158 reported attacks on health care, resulting in 11 deaths and 51 injuries. This is currently the majority of reported attacks on health care services worldwide since the beginning of 2021. Some 83 attacks impacted facilities, 21 attacks impacted ambulances, 76 attacks impacted health personnel, and 73 attacks impacted patients.
The global tracking system cumulatively lists 51 health facilities across Myanmar as having been under occupation by security forces. At least 31 of these facilities remain currently occupied and have reported a drop in the number of people seeking medical care.  Meanwhile, at least 139 doctors believed to be participating in civil disobedience have reportedly been charged under Section 505 (a) of Myanmar’s Penal Code.  These include highly specialized health personnel whose expertise cannot easily be replaced, which will significantly impact both the quality and quantity of health services available.
Attacks on health care pose a grave risk for the delivery of essential health services, as well as for the COVID-19 response, with potential devastating consequences for Myanmar and beyond. At a time when Myanmar needs them the most, health workers fear arrest or detention for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly.
“The United Nations in Myanmar stands ready to continue its support of the national COVID-19 response but this requires a return to the comprehensive response to the COVID-19 pandemic previously underway, that the inviolable nature of health facilities and health workers and patients is respected, and the immediate release of urgently needed medical and technical personnel detained or arrested while exercising their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly,” Andrew Kirkwood, acting interim United Nations Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Myanmar, said.
The United Nations Country Team in Myanmar consists of FAO, ILO, IOM, ITC, OHCHR, OCHA, UNAIDS, UNCDF, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, UNFPA, UN HABITAT, UNHCR, UNICEF, UNIDO, UNODC, UNOPS, UNV, UN WOMEN, WFP, and WHO.
NOTE: WHO’s recent article link has further information, including that this system does not intend to identify perpetrators or culpability, but to contribute to a conducive environment where health care is protected and safe, and to enable patients and providers to access and deliver health services without fear:
https://www.who.int/myanmar/news/detail/01-05-2021-who-s-attack-on-healthcare-initiative-advocates-for-safeguarding-healthcare-does-not-aim-at-reporting-incidents
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/126289-un-reiterates-call-health-workers-and-facilities-be-protected




Date: 03 May 2021
Title: Statement by United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet
Content: 03 May 2021
A free, uncensored and independent press is a cornerstone of democratic societies. It can bring life-saving information in moments of crises;  provide a basis for public participation; and help  ensure accountability and respect for human rights.
World Press Freedom Day is an opportunity to celebrate this fundamental work. Especially today, as we mark the 30th anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration, in which a group of African journalists set out key principles for press freedom.
The COVID-19 crisis has made it clearer that critical reporting on government policies or public figures is all too often met with prosecution. Laws adopted or applied to restrict and criminalise disinformation during the pandemic have also been used by States to target journalists.
Around the world, people have increasingly taken to the streets to demand their economic and social rights, as well as an end to discrimination and systemic racism, impunity, and corruption. Journalists fulfilling their fundamental role of reporting on these social protests have intolerably become targets. Many have been victims of unnecessary and disproportionate use of force by law enforcement, arbitrary arrests, and criminal prosecution.
Attacks, arrests and the criminal prosecution of a journalist has an additional chilling effect of dissuading other journalists from critically reporting on relevant issues. In this way, they impoverish public debate and hamper our ability to respond effectively to societal challenges, including the COVID-19 pandemic.
The work of journalists and media workers will be crucial for the world to recover better from the devastation of this crisis. Objective, trusted, fact-checked news will counter disinformation; help ensure resilient and sustainable solutions to current challenges; demand transparency and accountability; foster trust in institutions.
Contributing to humanity’s well-being, accurate information is a public good. The silencing of a journalist is a loss to society as a whole.
In order to fully celebrate the bravery of journalists in their determination to keep the public informed, we must demand that their rights are respected, protected and fulfilled.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/126026-statement-united-nations-high-commissioner-human-rights-michelle-bachelet




Date: 22 April 2021
Title: WFP to step up operations in response to fast rising hunger in Myanmar
Content: 22 April 2021
YANGON, Myanmar – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is to mount a new food assistance operation, targeting up to 2 million vulnerable people in the poor townships in Myanmar’s main cities and other areas where population displacement has recently taken place.
With the triple impact of pre-existing poverty, COVID-19 and the current political crisis, hunger and desperation are rising sharply across Myanmar. WFP estimates that within the next six months, up to 3.4 million more people will be hungry, particularly those in urban centres.
“More and more poor people have lost their jobs and are unable to afford food,” said WFP Myanmar Country Director Stephen Anderson. “A concerted response is required now to alleviate immediate suffering, and to prevent an alarming deterioration in food security.”
Already, there are signs of families in and around Yangon being pushed to the edge, skipping meals, eating less nutritious food and going into debt, just to survive. WFP’s response in Yangon will target 10 of the poorest townships, many of which are home to large informal settlements. WFP is also monitoring the situation in other parts of the country, and is ready to provide assistance to affected communities, including those newly displaced by armed conflict, if required.
The latest WFP market monitoring shows that in Yangon and across the country, the average rice price has increased by 5% since January, and the average cooking oil price has increased by 18% since February. In Yangon, an up to 25% increase in cooking oil price was also recorded. The increases are particularly high in some border states including Rakhine, Kachin and Chin. In Kachin state, for example, rice prices have risen by up to 43% in some townships, and cooking oil by 32%. The price of fuel has increased by roughly 30% nationwide.
Despite the volatile situation, WFP has maintained its humanitarian assistance to internally displaced people and other vulnerable populations affected by long-running conflict. In March, WFP assistance reached 374,000 people in conflict affected areas of southern Chin, Kachin, Rakhine and northern Shan states.
In the coming months, the number of people WFP assists will nearly triple – from 1.3 million to 3.3 million. To do this, US$106 million is required urgently.
“To prevent a large-scale humanitarian crisis unfolding in front of our eyes, we must step up. We count on the international community to continue standing with the people of Myanmar,” said Anderson.
Resources
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/125557-wfp-step-operations-response-fast-rising-hunger-myanmar




Date: 13 April 2021
Title: Intensifying widespread, systematic slaughter by Myanmar military must be halted– Bachelet
Content: 13 April 2021
GENEVA  – UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet on Tuesday urged States to take immediate, decisive and impactful measures to push Myanmar’s military leadership into halting its campaign of repression and slaughter of its people.
“We have witnessed yet another weekend of coordinated bloodshed in many parts of the country, including the reported mass killing of at least 82 people in Bago between Friday and Saturday.   The military seems intent on intensifying its pitiless policy of violence against the people of Myanmar, using military-grade and indiscriminate weaponry,” Bachelet said.
“There are clear echoes of Syria in 2011. There too, we saw peaceful protests met with unnecessary and clearly disproportionate force. The State’s brutal, persistent repression of its own people led to some individuals taking up arms, followed by a downward and rapidly expanding spiral of violence all across the country. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights at the time warned in 2011 that the failure of the international community to respond with united resolve could be disastrous for Syria and beyond. The past ten years have shown just how horrific the consequences have been for millions of civilians.”
“I fear the situation in Myanmar is heading towards a full-blown conflict. States must not allow the deadly mistakes of the past in Syria and elsewhere to be repeated.”
Over the weekend, credible reports indicate that Tatmadaw forces opened fire with rocket-propelled grenades, fragmentation grenades and mortar fire in Bago in the south of the country. Security forces also reportedly prevented medical personnel from helping the wounded, as well as charging relatives a “fine” of roughly USD 90 to claim the bodies of those who were killed. Some individuals are also now resorting to the use of makeshift or primitive weapons in self-defence.
Clashes between the military and ethnic armed groups have also intensified in several locations in Kachin, Shan and Kayin states, where the military have been employing airstrikes that have killed and displaced civilians.
As arrests continue, with at least 3,080 people currently detained, there are reports that 23 people have been sentenced to death following secret trials – including four protesters and 19 others who were accused of political and criminal offences.
The mass arrests have forced hundreds of people to go into hiding, and reports suggest that many journalists, civil society activists, celebrities and other public figures are being sought, many simply because of the dissent they have been expressing on-line. Wireless broadband and mobile data services were cut indefinitely on 2 April, leaving the vast majority of people without access to vital sources of information and communication.
Meanwhile, the country’s economy, education and health infrastructure have been brought to the brink of collapse, leaving millions of Myanmar people without livelihood, basic services and, increasingly, food security. Thousands of internal migrants have left urban centres for their home communities – which once relied on their income.  COVID-19 measures have effectively been brought to a standstill.
The High Commissioner called on the Myanmar military and neighbouring States to facilitate humanitarian access to populations in need. She urged neighbouring States to give temporary protection to people fleeing the violence, and to refrain from returning people fleeing Myanmar at this time, in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement.
“Statements of condemnation, and limited targeted sanctions, are clearly not enough. States with influence need to urgently apply concerted pressure on the military in Myanmar to halt the commission of grave human rights violations and possible crimes against humanity against the people,” Bachelet said.
The High Commissioner made particular reference to the report of the UN Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar, which contains clear recommendations for impactful action in relation to the military.* Bachelet stressed the need to cut off the supply of arms and finances to the military leadership that aid its commission of serious human rights violations.
ENDS
*https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/MyanmarFFM/Pages/EconomicInterestsMyanmarMilitary.aspx
Tag and share
Twitter @UNHumanRights
Facebook unitednationshumanrights
Instagram @unitednationshumanrights
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/125133-intensifying-widespread-systematic-slaughter-myanmar-military-must-be-halted%E2%80%93-bachelet




Date: 01 April 2021
Title: UN Security Council Press Elements on Myanmar
Content: 01 April 2021
The Security Council held closed consultations on the situation in Myanmar on 31 March 2021.
The Members of the Security Council expressed deep concern at the rapidly deteriorating situation, and strongly condemned the use of violence against peaceful protestors and the deaths of hundreds of civilians, including women and children.
The Members of the Security Council reiterated their call on the military to exercise utmost restraint. They reiterated the need to fully respect human rights and to pursue dialogue and reconciliation in accordance with the will and interests of the people of Myanmar. They called on all sides to refrain from violence. They also called again for the immediate release of all detainees, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint.
The Members of the Security Council noted the Secretary General’s statement of 27 March 2021 calling for a firm, unified and resolute response from the international community. They stressed that they continued to monitor the situation closely and would remain actively seized of the matter.
The Members of the Security Council reiterated their full support for the work of the Special Envoy, welcomed her upcoming visit to the region, and hoped she would visit Myanmar as soon as possible They also reiterated their support for ASEAN’s efforts.
The Members of the Security Council called for safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all people in need. They also expressed concern that recent developments pose particular serious challenges for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees and internally displaced persons. They underlined it is vital that the rights of ethnic minorities are fully protected.
The Members of the Security Council reaffirmed their strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/123792-un-security-council-press-elements-myanmar




Date: 27 March 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 27 March 2021
The Secretary-General condemns in the strongest terms the killing of dozens of civilians, including children and young people, by security forces in Myanmar today.
The continuing military crackdown, which today resulted in the highest daily death toll since demonstrations against the coup began last month, is unacceptable and demands a firm, unified and resolute international response. It is critical to find an urgent solution to this crisis.
The Secretary-General reiterates his urgent appeal to the military to refrain from violence and repression. Those responsible for the serious human rights violations committed in Myanmar must be held accountable.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/123430-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 27 March 2021
Title: Statement by the UN in Myanmar
Content: 27 March 2021
The United Nations in Myanmar is horrified by the needless loss of life today with reports of dozens of people shot dead by the military across the country, in the bloodiest day since the coup.
The violence is completely unacceptable and must stop immediately. Those responsible must be held to account.  As the Special Envoy on Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener has said, ensuring peace and defending the people should be the responsibility of any military, but the Tatmadaw has turned against its own people.
The United Nations Country Team in Myanmar consists of FAO, ILO, IOM, ITC, OCHA, UNAIDS, UNCDF, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, UNFPA, UN HABITAT, UNHCR, UNICEF, UNIDO, UNODC, UNOPS, UNV, UN WOMEN, WFP, WHO.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/123295-statement-un-myanmar




Date: 26 March 2021
Title: Statement Attributable to the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar
Content: 26 March 2021
The Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener, remains deeply disturbed by ongoing violence committed by the country’s security forces. Tomorrow, Armed Forces Day, marks Myanmar’s liberation from foreign power.  Ensuring peace and defending the people should be the responsibility of any military, but in Myanmar, the Tatmadaw has turned against its own citizens.
Women, youth and children have been among those killed.  Women remain a catalyst for peace and have played a leading role in the civil disobedience movements.  Young leaders, who have benefitted from Myanmar’s democratic transition, are key to the nation’s future, which the military is putting at risk.
The Special Envoy calls for the release of all those detained, including President U Win Myint and State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.
She stands steadfastly in solidarity with the people of Myanmar and their unwavering commitment to peace and the rule of law.
As Myanmar’s Thingyan New Year approaches in April, the Special Envoy appeals for basic rights and democratic norms to be upheld in the greater interest of the nation’s prosperity under civilian rule.  The Special Envoy calls for maximum restraint.
The Special Envoy will continue to amplify the Secretary-General’s call for a firm, unified international response, bilaterally and collectively towards the restoration of the democratically elected government of Myanmar, and the Security Council’s calls for a peaceful solution through constructive dialogue and practical reconciliation in the interests of the people of Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/123210-statement-attributable-special-envoy-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 26 March 2021
Title: The Livelihoods and Food Security Fund (LIFT) Sounds Alarm at Worsening Humanitarian Situation in Yangon
Content: 26 March 2021
The escalating violence and imposition of martial law in six Yangon townships has deeply affected LIFT’s peri-urban programmes and is constraining the delivery of essential support and services.
Unprecedented economic hardships drive thousands of workers to despair …
The situation in Yangon has taken a dramatic turn for the worse as thousands of families face growing insecurity and are subject to erratic and random violence. At the same time the impact of protracted income cuts, surging food prices, halted health services and lack of remittances take their toll.
Many garment factories, a critical source of urban livelihoods for hundreds of thousands of women, have ceased operations  with major markets cancelling orders and disruptions being experienced in raw material supply chains. Several of the largest brands sourcing from Myanmar have announced that they will stop all further orders.
Furthermore, several factories have been  burned and vandalized leaving thousands of people with no income prospects.
There are also increasing reports of poor treatment of workers in factories, including locking workers inside factories to prevent from protesting and refusal to pay full wages.
Deadly crackdowns on 13 March left 21 persons dead in just one day. With unprecedented economic hardships and growing insecurity, thousands of workers are leaving the city or remain to face chaos and socio-economic misery. Food shortages and food price spikes have already been reported across many townships of Yangon, particularly those under martial law. Coupled with market closures and hindered access to healthcare facilities, this is expected to lead to sharp increases in acute malnutrition among the most vulnerable groups of population.
… while key service providers are disabled
Most of LIFT’s essential support and services in Yangon is delivered through non-governmental organizations and civil society organizations (CSOs). Following the military takeover, many of these organizations have paused or limited their activities while  they assess the risks, ensure the safety of their personnel and adjust the programmes to the changing context. This has disrupted critical work that was actively improving working conditions and nutrition of individuals living in these areas of Yangon.
Meanwhile, disruptions in the banking sector have resulted in a liquidity crisis for organizations’ operations and the intermittent communication connectivity - telephone and internet - has hindered the remote management of activities.
While the majority of LIFT’s partners have shifted their activities to provide and expand humanitarian support, psychosocial and legal counselling to migrants and workers, the de facto authorities are  taking measures to restrain some of these organizations, including issuing warrants for staff and instructing banks to submit details of the financial transactions of NGO bank accounts since 1 April 2016.
LIFT-supported labour organizations, who have been at the vanguard of decent work efforts, are forced to suspend nearly all their activities.
While thousands of people are in desperate need of assistance, LIFT’s partners are under distinct pressure.
What’s next?
LIFT and partners are mobilizing to provide humanitarian support, including food assistance and cash transfers to workers experiencing a loss of livelihood in Yangon. This should be combined with psychosocial counselling services to workers and emergency medical treatment to CSO staff and others traumatized during the recent crackdowns. LIFT will also support dialogue with international brands to get their suppliers to act responsibly, while increasing legal assistance services for affected workers.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/123279-livelihoods-and-food-security-fund-lift-sounds-alarm-worsening-humanitarian-situation-yangon




Date: 19 March 2021
Title: Occupation of schools by security forces in Myanmar is a serious violation of children’s rights
Content: 19 March 2021
YANGON – The occupation of education facilities across Myanmar by security forces is a serious violation of children’s rights. It will exacerbate the learning crisis for almost 12 million children and youth in Myanmar, which was already under tremendous pressure as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing widespread school closures. Save the Children, UNESCO and UNICEF call on security forces to vacate occupied premises immediately and ensure that schools and educational facilities are not used by military or security personnel.
As of 19 March, security forces have reportedly occupied more than 60 schools and university campuses in 13 states and regions. In at least one incident, security forces reportedly beat two teachers while entering premises, and left several others injured. Other public institutions including hospitals have also been occupied.
These incidents mark a further escalation of the current crisis and represent a serious violation of the rights of children. Schools must be not used by security forces under any circumstances. Save the Children, UNESCO and UNICEF remind security forces of their obligation to uphold the rights of all children and youth in Myanmar to education as enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Myanmar Child Rights Law, and the National Education Law and call on them to exercise maximum restraint and end all forms of occupation and interference with education facilities, personnel, students and other public institutions.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/122653-occupation-schools-security-forces-myanmar-serious-violation-children%E2%80%99s-rights




Date: 19 March 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 19 March 2021
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the continuing brutal violence by the military in Myanmar.
The killing of peaceful demonstrators and arbitrary arrests, including of journalists, is utterly unacceptable.
The military continues to defy calls, including by the Security Council, to end violations of fundamental human rights and return to the path of democracy. A firm, unified international response is urgently needed.
The Secretary-General will continue to stand with the people and their aspirations to achieve a peaceful, stable and prosperous Myanmar.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/122840-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 16 March 2021
Title: Rising food and fuel prices a looming threat to the poorest and most vulnerable in Myanmar, warns WFP
Content: 16 March 2021
Naypyitaw, Myanmar – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) today warned of rising food and fuel prices as the current political unrest starts to impact supply chains and markets.
WFP’s food price monitoring shows that food prices are trending upwards in some urban areas with the retail price of palm oil up 20 percent since the start of February in the peri-urban areas of the main city Yangon, and rice prices in the peri-urban areas of Yangon and Mandalay also up 4 percent since the last week of February.
Across the country, the cost of rice showed an average increase of 3 percent on monitored markets from mid-January to mid-February. However, in a few townships in Kachin state, such as Bhamo and Putao, the increases are 20-35 percent.
“These initial signs are troubling, especially for the most vulnerable people who were already living meal-to-meal,” said WFP Myanmar Country Director Stephen Anderson. “Coming on top of the COVID-19 pandemic, if these price trends continue they will severely undermine the ability of the poorest and most vulnerable to put enough food on the family table.”
Steep spikes in oil prices have been observed in northern Rakhine where the average retail price of cooking oil increased by 27 percent from January to February, and in Maungdaw township the price of pulses jumped 15 percent. Increases in the price of cooking oil have also been observed in central Rakhine State (11 percent) and in Tanintharyi Region (14 percent).
WFP has also noted an increase of 15 percent in the cost of fuel countrywide since 1 February, raising concerns about further food price hikes. In northern Rakhine, the price of petrol has increased by 33 percent and diesel by 29 percent.
These rising food and fuel prices are compounded by the near paralysis of the banking sector, slowdowns in remittances, and widespread limits on cash availability.
In order to ensure life-saving monthly cash and food distributions continue to over 360,000 people – mainly internally displaced and living in camps – WFP is building a contingency food stock, which would allow a switch from cash to in-kind food assistance in case cash availability continues to be limited, or market supply is constrained.
“WFP reiterates the call of the United Nations Secretary-General for the will of the Myanmar people expressed in recent elections to be respected,” said Anderson. “At WFP we know all too well how hunger can quickly follow when peace and dialogue are sidelined.”
WFP’s food price data were collected from more than 70 townships, across 100 markets and 250 plus separate traders and shops. While monitoring the new trends closely, WFP’s first priority is to ensure its monthly life-saving food assistance continues to reach those in need. For details on price changes, please visit WFP’s Market Monitoring Dashboard.
# # #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/116443-rising-food-and-fuel-prices-looming-threat-poorest-and-most-vulnerable-myanmar-warns-wfp




Date: 15 March 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 15 March 2021
The Secretary-General is appalled by the escalating violence in Myanmar at the hands of the country’s military. The killing of demonstrators, arbitrary arrests and the reported torture of prisoners violate fundamental human rights and stand in clear defiance of calls by the Security Council for restraint, dialogue and a return to Myanmar’s democratic path.
The Secretary-General urges the international community to work collectively and bilaterally to help bring an end to the repression by the military.  He urges the military to allow a visit by his Special Envoy as an important element in calming down the situation and setting the stage for dialogue and return to democracy.
The Secretary-General will continue to stand with the people of Myanmar and their democratic aspirations.
၂၀၂၁ ခုနှစ် မတ်လ ၁၅ ရက်
ကုလသမဂ္ဂအထွေထွေအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်၏ ပြောခွင့်ရပုဂ္ဂိုလ်မှ ထုတ်ပြန်သော မြန်မာနိုင်ငံနှင့် ပတ်သက်၍ ထုတ်ပြန်ချက်
ကုလသမဂ္ဂအထွေထွေအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်သည် မြန်မာစစ်တပ်ကြောင့် နိုင်ငံအတွင်း အကြမ်းဖက်များ မြင့်တက်ဖြစ်ပွားနေခြင်းအတွက် များစွာတုန်လှုပ်စိတ်ပျက်မိပါသည်။ ဆန္ဒပြသူများအား သတ်ဖြတ်ခြင်း၊ တရားလက်လွတ်ဖမ်းဆီးခြင်းနှင့် ဖမ်းဆီးထိန်းသိမ်းထားသူများကို ညှင်းပန်းနှိပ်စက်ခြင်းများသည် အခြေခံလူ့အခွင့်အရေးများကို ချိုးဖောက်ခြင်းဖြစ်ပြီး ကုလသမဂ္ဂလုံခြုံရေးကောင်စီမှ ထိန်းထိန်း သိမ်းသိမ်းဆောင်ရွက်ကြရန်၊ ဆွေးနွေးမှုများ ပြုလုပ်ရန်နှင့် မြန်မာနိုင်ငံအား ဒီမိုကရေစီလမ်းကြောင်းသို့ ပြန်တင်ပေးရန် တိုက်တွန်းချက်များကို ပြောင်ပြောင်တင်းတင်း ဆန့်ကျင်ဖီဆန်နေခြင်းလည်း ဖြစ်သည်။
စစ်တပ်၏ ဖိနှိပ်လုပ်ဆောင်နေမှုများ အဆုံးသတ်သွားအောင် လုပ်ဆောင်နိုင်ရန်အတွက် နိုင်ငံတကာ အသိုင်းအဝိုင်းမှ အတူတကွစုပေါင်း၍လည်းကောင်း၊ တစ်နိုင်ငံချင်းအနေဖြင့်လည်းကောင်း ကူညီပေးကြရန် ကုလသမဂ္ဂ အထွေထွေအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်မှ တိုက်တွန်းလိုက်သည်။ အခြေအနေများ တည်ငြိမ်အောင် ဆောင်ရွက်ရန်နှင့် ဆွေးနွေးမှုများ ပြုလုပ်ရန်၊ ဒီမိုကရေစီလမ်းကြောင်းသို့ ပြန်သွားရန်လိုအပ်သည်များကို ပြင်ဆင်လုပ်ဆောင်ရန် အရေးကြီးသော အစိတ်အပိုင်းတစ်ခုအဖြစ် အတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်၏ အထူးကိုယ်စားလှယ်အားနိုင်ငံသို့ လာရောက်ခွင့်ပေးရန်ကိုလည်း အတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်က စစ်တပ်ကို  တိုက်တွန်းလိုက်သည်။
ကုလသမဂ္ဂအထွေထွေအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်သည် မြန်မာပြည်သူများ၊ ၎င်းတို့၏ ဒီမိုကရေစီအား ပြင်းပြစွာ လိုလားတောင့်တမှုများနှင့်အတူ ဆက်လက်ရပ်တည်သွားမည်ဖြစ်ပါသည်။
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/116444-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 14 March 2021
Title: Note to Correspondents: Statement by the Secretary-General's Special Envoy on Myanmar
Content: 14 March 2021
The Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener, strongly condemns the continuing bloodshed in the country as the military defies international calls, including from the Security Council, for restraint, dialogue and full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The Special Envoy has personally heard from contacts in Myanmar heartbreaking accounts of killings, mistreatment of demonstrators and torture of prisoners over the weekend. The ongoing brutality, including against medical personnel and destruction of public infrastructure, severely undermines any prospects for peace and stability.  The international community, including regional actors, must come together in solidarity with the people of Myanmar and their democratic aspirations.
The Special Envoy remains in close contact with regional leaders and Security Council members and relies on their continued support towards her efforts to calm the situation.
၂၀၂၁ မတ်လ ၁၄ ရက်
သတင်းထုတ်ပြန်ချက် - ကုလသမဂ္ဂအထွေထွေအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်၏ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံဆိုင်ရာ အထူးကိုယ်စားလှယ်မှ ထုတ်ပြန်ချက်
ကုလသမဂ္ဂအထွေထွေအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်၏ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံဆိုင်ရာ အထူးကိုယ်စားလှယ် Christine Schraner Burgener က မြန်မာစစ်တပ်သည် ကုလသမဂ္ဂလုံခြုံရေးကောင်စီအပါအဝင် နိုင်ငံတကာမှ ထိန်းထိန်းသိမ်းသိမ်းဆောင်ရွက်ရန်၊ ဆွေးနွေးဖလှယ်ရန်နှင့် လူ့အခွင့်အရေးများ၊ အခြေခံ လွတ်လပ်ခွင့်များကို လေးစားရန် တိုက်တွန်းပြောဆိုနေမှုများအား ဆန့်ကျင်ဖီဆန်လျက်  နိုင်ငံတွင်း သွေးထွက်သံယိုမှုများ၊ သေကျေဒဏ်ရာရမှုများ ဖြစ်ပွားအောင် ဆက်လက်လုပ်ဆောင်နေမှုများကို အပြင်းအထန် ရှုတ်ချလိုက်သည်။
အထူးကိုယ်စားလှယ်သည် ပြီးခဲ့သည့် စနေ၊ တနင်္ဂနွေနေ့ရက်များတွင် စိတ်နှလုံးကြေကွဲဖွယ်ကောင်းလှ သည့် ဆန္ဒပြသူများအား သတ်ဖြတ်မှုများနှင့် မလျော်မကန်ဆက်ဆံမှုများ၊ ဖမ်းဆီးထိန်းသိမ်းထား သူများအား နှိပ်စက်ညှင်းပန်းမှုများကို မြန်မာနိုင်ငံရှိ သူမနှင့် အဆက်အသွယ်ရှိသူများထံမှ ကိုယ်တိုင် ကြားသိခဲ့ရသည်။ ကျန်းမာရေးဝန်ထမ်းများအပေါ် ကျူးလွန်မှုများနှင့် အများပြည်သူဆိုင်ရာ အခြေခံ အဆောက်အအုံများကို ဖျက်ဆီးမှုများအပါအဝင် ဆက်လက်ဖြစ်ပွားနေသည့် လူမဆန်သောလုပ်ရပ်များ သည် ငြိမ်းချမ်းရေးနှင့် တည်ငြိမ်မှု ရရှိစေရေး အလားအလာများကို ပြင်းထန်စွာ ထိခိုက် လျော့ပါးစေလျက်ရှိသည်။ ဒေသတွင်းမှလုပ်ဆောင်သူများအပါအဝင် နိုင်ငံတကာအသိုက်အဝန်း အနေဖြင့် မြန်မာပြည်သူများနှင့်အတူ တစ်သားတည်းရပ်တည်၍ ၎င်းတို့၏ ဒီမိုကရေစီအား လိုလား တောင့်တမှုများအတွက် အတူတကွ ဆောင်ရွက်ပေးကြရမည်ဖြစ်သည်။
အထူးကိုယ်စားလှယ်သည် ဒေသတွင်းရှိ ခေါင်းဆောင်များ၊ ကုလသမဂ္ဂလုံခြုံရေးကောင်စီ အဖွဲ့ဝင်များနှင့် စဉ်ဆက်မပြတ်ထိတွေ့ဆက်သွယ်လျက်ရှိပြီး ဖြစ်ပေါ်လျက်ရှိသော အခြေအနေများ တည်ငြိမ်မှု ရရှိစေရေး သူမ၏ ကြိုးပမ်းဆောင်ရွက်မှုများအား ၎င်းတို့၏ စဉ်ဆက်မပြတ် ပံ့ပိုးကူညီပေးမှုများအပေါ် အားထား၍ လုပ်ဆောင်လျက် ရှိပါသည်။
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/116301-note-correspondents-statement-secretary-generals-special-envoy-myanmar




Date: 12 March 2021
Title: Statement on Myanmar by Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, UN Under-Secretary-General and Executive Director of UN Women
Content: 12 March 2021
UN Women aligns with the statements made by the UN Secretary-General in strongly condemning the violent crackdown and the use of lethal force against peaceful protestors over the past month in Myanmar and expresses its deep concern over the targeted and disproportionate violence against women being recorded in this situation. This repressive response has already taken the lives of six women and resulted in the arrest of close to 600 women, including young women, LGBTIQ+ and civil society activists. In addition, those in detention are also reportedly experiencing sexual harassment and violence.
Women have long played a celebrated and vital role in the history of Myanmar. They continue to do so and must not be attacked and punished for the peaceful expression of their views.  Myanmar is a signatory to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women,  which states, inter alia,  that “the full and complete development of a country, the welfare of the world and the cause of peace require the maximum participation of women on equal terms with men in all fields” and guarantees “the exercise and enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms on a basis of equality with men”. The CEDAW committee has further clearly established that violence against women is a form of discrimination prohibited under the Convention.
We call upon Myanmar’s military and police to ensure that the right to peaceful assembly is fully respected and that demonstrators, including women, are not subjected to reprisals.  We further call on the military and police to respect the human rights of women who have been arrested and are currently being detained and reiterate the calls for the immediate release of all detainees.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/115970-statement-myanmar-phumzile-mlambo-ngcuka-un-under-secretary-general-and-executive-director




Date: 10 March 2021
Title: Statement by the President of the UN Security Council on Myanmar
Content: 10 March 2021
"The Security Council, recalling its Press Statement SC/14430 of 4 February 2021, reiterates its deep concern at developments in Myanmar following the declaration of the state of emergency imposed by the military on 1 February and the arbitrary detention of members of the Government, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint and others. The Security Council reiterates its call for their immediate release.
“The Security Council strongly condemns the violence against peaceful protestors, including against women, youth and children. It expresses deep concern at restrictions on medical personnel, civil society, labour union members, journalists and media workers, and calls for the immediate release of all those detained arbitrarily. The Council calls for the military to exercise utmost restraint and emphasises that it is following the situation closely.
“The Security Council expresses its continued support for the democratic transition in Myanmar, and stresses the need to uphold democratic institutions and processes, refrain from violence, fully respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and uphold the rule of law. It encourages the pursuance of constructive dialogue and reconciliation in accordance with the will and interests of the people of Myanmar.
“The Security Council reiterates its strong support for regional organisations, in particular the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and its readiness to assist Myanmar in a positive, peaceful and constructive manner. It commends ASEAN’s continued efforts to engage with all relevant parties in Myanmar. The Council welcomes the recent informal ASEAN Ministerial meeting on 2 March, and the statements made by the ASEAN Chair on 2 March and 1 February, which recalled the purposes and principles of the ASEAN Charter, notably the principle of democracy, adherence to the rule of law, good governance, the protection of human rights and respect for fundamental freedoms, called on all parties to  exercise utmost restraint and seek a peaceful solution through constructive dialogue and practical reconciliation in the interests of the people and their livelihood.
“The Security Council also reiterates its support to the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar for her good offices, encourages the Special Envoy to maintain communication and her efforts to engage intensively with all relevant parties in Myanmar, and to visit Myanmar as soon as possible.
“The Security Council continues to call for safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all people in need, and highlights that the current situation has the potential to exacerbate existing challenges in Rakhine state and other regions. The Security Council expresses concern that recent developments pose particular serious challenges for the voluntary, safe, dignified, and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees and internally displaced persons. It is vital that the rights of minorities are fully protected.
“The Security Council reaffirms its support for the people of Myanmar and its strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Myanmar.
“The Security Council remains seized of the matter.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/115791-statement-president-un-security-council-myanmar




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: Statement on  International Women’s Day 2021
Content: 08 March 2021
Yangon - As the world marks International Women’s Day, women across Myanmar are once again demonstrating their leadership and agency following more than one month of political instability and violence in the country.

Across Myanmar, we see women, young and old leading the call for peace, justice and democracy. They do so with courage, braving bullets and beatings, death and detention, challenging patriarchy and social norms in the process.
While their role often goes unrecognized, women and women civil society organization have been central to Myanmar’s slow journey towards a more democratic, peaceful and prosperous society. For decades, women, across Myanmar have worked both in the shadows and in broad daylight, often at high risks to their safety and well-being, to advocate for peace, support the peace process and deliver essential services when and where there were no government services to be had.
Under this year’s theme of “Women in Leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world”, we honor the women of Myanmar, in their full diversity, and stand in solidarity with them and women’s civil society organisations, as they continue to exercise their leadership to influence the destiny of their country.
Throughout the past year, we have seen the women of Myanmar, rural and urban women, ethnic women, young and old women, LBTQI+ women, women of all creed and religion, in all sectors of society, rise to the occasion, and stand firm on the frontlines of the country’s efforts to prevent and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, at the risk of their own lives and despite the fact that the crisis was disproportionally impacting them.
We have seen women health workers leading the COVID-19 health prevention and response efforts. We have seen essential workers restocking supermarkets and operating wet markets so as to ensure food security for the entire population. We have seen women volunteer to manage community-based quarantine centres. We have seen women, often without recognition, assuming the extra charge of care work at home, to take care of children left behind by school closures or of sick family members while trying to maintain an economic activity to keep food on the table.
At this time of political crisis in the country, we reiterate the United Nations Secretary General call for Myanmar’s military and police to ensure the right of peaceful assembly is fully respected and demonstrators are not subjected to reprisals.
We also reiterate the United Nations Secretary General’s strong condemnation of the violent crackdown and the use of lethal force against peaceful demonstrators, as well as his call for Myanmar’s military and police to ensure the right of peaceful assembly is fully respected.
Over the past decade, the United Nations in Myanmar has stood with the women of Myanmar and worked hard to support their efforts and the work of women civil society organizations in ensuring a more  gender-equal country. Across all fields and sectors, from health, to agriculture, to education, to governance, we have aimed to put women and girls at the center of our development and humanitarian work, to ensure that their needs are met, and to support their role and agency in the economic and political development of the country.
At this time of crisis, we urge all stakeholders, in Myanmar and abroad, to listen to the voices of the women of Myanmar and we echo the words of the United Nations Secretary-General reaffirming the unwavering support of the United Nations to the people of Myanmar in their pursuit of democracy, peace, human rights and the rule of law.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/115219-statement-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-2021




Date: 28 February 2021
Title: UN Human Rights Office urges military to halt violence against peaceful protestors across Myanmar: Comment by UN Human Rights Office Spokesperson Ravina Shamdasani on Myanmar
Content: 28 February 2021
Geneva: “We strongly condemn the escalating violence against protests in Myanmar and call on the military to immediately halt the use of force against peaceful protestors.
Throughout the day, in several locations throughout the country, police and military forces have confronted peaceful demonstrations, using lethal force and less-than-lethal force that – according to credible information received by the UN Human Rights Office – has left at least 18 people dead and over 30 wounded. Deaths reportedly occurred as a result of live ammunition fired into crowds in Yangon, Dawei, Mandalay, Myeik, Bago and Pokokku. Tear gas was also reportedly used in various locations as well as flash-bang and stun grenades.
The people of Myanmar have the right to assemble peacefully and demand the restoration of democracy. These fundamental rights must be respected by the military and police, not met with violent and bloody repression.
Use of lethal force against non-violent demonstrators is never justifiable under international human rights norms.
Since the beginning of the coup d’état in Myanmar on 1 February, the police and security forces have targeted an ever-increasing number of opposition voices and demonstrators by arresting political officials, activists, civil society members, journalists and medical professionals. Today alone, police have detained at least 85 medical professionals and students, as well as seven journalists, who were present at the demonstrations. Over 1,000 individuals have been arbitrarily arrested and detained in the last month – some of whom remain unaccounted for – mostly without any form of due process, simply for exercising their human rights to freedom of opinion, expression and peaceful assembly.
We reiterate our call for the immediate release of all those arbitrarily detained, including members of the democratically elected government.
The international community must stand in solidarity with the protestors and all those seeking a return to democracy in Myanmar.”
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/114079-un-human-rights-office-urges-military-halt-violence-against-peaceful-protestors-across




Date: 28 February 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General  on Myanmar
Content: 28 February 2021
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the violent crackdown in Myanmar. He is deeply disturbed by the increase in deaths and serious injuries. The use of lethal force against peaceful protestors and arbitrary arrests are unacceptable.
The Secretary-General urges the international community to come together and send a clear signal to the military that it must respect the will of the people of Myanmar as expressed through the election and stop the repression.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/114093-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 21 February 2021
Title: The United Nations Country Team expresses profound concern on use of lethal force by security forces
Content: 21 February 2021
(Yangon) The United Nations Country Team in Myanmar expresses profound concern over the events yesterday (20 February 2021) at the Yadanarbon Shipyard in Mandalay in which security forces used lethal force against demonstrators, reportedly killing two and leaving dozens wounded, some of whom remain in serious condition.  The United Nations Country Team in Myanmar extends its thoughts and condolences to the families of the victims and to those injured.
We call on security forces to refrain from violence. The use of excessive force against demonstrators by security forces must stop and the fundamental right to peaceful assembly must be respected along with other human rights such as the freedom of speech.
The United Nations Country Team in Myanmar reiterates the Secretary-General’s call for the “military leadership to respect the will of the people of Myanmar and adhere to democratic norms, with any differences to be resolved through peaceful dialogue. All leaders must act in the greater interest of Myanmar’s democratic reform, engaging in meaningful dialogue, refraining from violence and fully respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.”

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/112946-united-nations-country-team-expresses-profound-concern-use-lethal-force-security-forces




Date: 14 February 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary General - on Myanmar
Content: 14 February 2021
The Secretary-General is deeply concerned about the situation in Myanmar, including the increasing use of force and the reported deployment of additional armoured vehicles to major cities. He calls on Myanmar’s military and police to ensure the right of peaceful assembly is fully respected and demonstrators are not subjected to reprisals. Reports of continued violence, intimidation and harassment by security personnel are unacceptable.
Ongoing arrests of political leaders, government officials, civil society actors and media representatives are deeply concerning as are the restrictions on internet and communication services. They must not be disrupted to ensure the right to freedom of expression, which includes access to information.
The Secretary-General reiterates his call on Member States collectively and bilaterally to exercise influence regarding the protection of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the people of Myanmar.
The Secretary-General reaffirms the unwavering support of the United Nations to the people of Myanmar in their pursuit of democracy, peace, human rights and the rule of law.
The Secretary-General calls on the military authorities urgently to allow the Special Envoy, Ms. Christine Schraner Burgener, to visit Myanmar under agreeable conditions and to assess the situation first hand.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/111919-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 12 February 2021
Title: The United Nations continues lifesaving Humanitarian Assistance in Myanmar
Content: 12 February 2021
(Yangon, 12 February) The United Nations in Myanmar follows the unfolding events in the country with great concern, including reports of arbitrary detentions, arrests and violence, as we continue delivering lifesaving humanitarian assistance to those in need.
“The UN and its partners have, for many years, been responding to humanitarian needs caused by conflict and natural disasters in Myanmar.  It is our absolute intention to continue this work also under the current circumstances” said Ola Almgren, the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar.
“It is essential that lifesaving humanitarian assistance continues unimpeded and that humanitarian partners are given timely and safe access to the populations in need,” he said, stressing “as always, our humanitarian response is guided by the internationally recognized principles of neutrality, impartiality, independence and humanity”.
Just last year, and thanks to the generous support of donors, 930,000 women, children and men in conflict-affected areas received food assistance, 250,000 people accessed essential healthcare services, and hundreds of thousands received nutrition support. Around 200,000 people were reached with specialized protection services, such as psychosocial support and efforts to prevent and respond to gender-based violence, while approximately 75,000 boys and girls were able to continue learning. Communities also received basic relief items, such as essential shelter and household materials, and were able to access safe drinking water and sanitation facilities.
“Efforts to reach people in need of lifesaving assistance must be scaled up. This year, the Myanmar Humanitarian Response Plan aims to respond to the needs of close to 1 million people in need of humanitarian assistance, for whom we are seeking US$276.5 million in funding,” added  Almgren. An estimated 336,000 of them are internally displaced people, 250,000 of whom are in situations of protracted displacement, including around 130,000 people in Rakhine.
The United Nations in Myanmar reiterates the Secretary-General’s words of unwavering support of the UN to the people of Myanmar in their pursuit of democracy, peace, human rights and the rule of law.
End

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/111663-united-nations-continues-lifesaving-humanitarian-assistance-myanmar




Date: 11 February 2021
Title: UN Women calls upon all stakeholders to listen to the voices of women in Myanmar in response to political events
Content: 11 February 2021
In light of recent political events in Myanmar, UN Women expresses strong concern over the use of force by security forces against peaceful demonstrators including women and calls upon all stakeholders to listen to the voices of Myanmar women.
On 9 February 2021, there were several reports from Nay Pyi Taw, Mandalay and other cities in Myanmar of demonstrators having been injured by security forces in connection with the peaceful disobedience movement sweeping across the country. It was later confirmed that Ma Mya Thwate Thwate Khaing a 19-year old woman, who was shot in the head by security forces, was the first reported victim of this violence. Doctors have confirmed since that the young woman is currently in critical condition and being kept on life support. Ma Mya Thwate Thwate Khaing should have been celebrating her 20th birthday today. UN Women extends its deepest sympathy to her family and friends and calls upon the military and police to refrain from using disproportionate force against demonstrators.
Over the past decade, the women and women civil society organizations of Myanmar have played an essential role in the transition process towards a prosperous and democratic society and have been central in advocating for peace and inclusive governance. During the past year, we have also seen the women of Myanmar, in all sectors of society, rise to the occasion and stand firm on the frontlines of the country’s efforts to prevent and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, even though the crisis was disproportionally impacting them.
Today, UN Women stands in solidarity with the women and women’s civil society organizations of Myanmar as they seek to exercise their fundamental right to demonstrate peacefully and express their hopes and desires for the future of their country.
We urge all stakeholders in Myanmar and abroad to listen to the voices of the women of Myanmar. We echo the words of the United Nations Secretary-General reaffirming the unwavering support of the United Nations to the people of Myanmar in their pursuit of democracy, peace, human rights and the rule of law, and urging the military leadership to respect the will of the people of Myanmar and adhere to democratic norms, with any differences to be resolved through peaceful dialogue.

For media inquiries:
Lesly Lotha
Communications Officer, UN Women Myanmar | Lesly.lotha@unwomen.org, Mobile: +95 979 613 9223
Montira Narkvichien
Regional Communications Specialist, UN Women Asia and the Pacific | montira.narkvichien@unwomen.org | Mobile: +66 81 668 8900
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/111487-un-women-calls-upon-all-stakeholders-listen-voices-women-myanmar-response-political-events




Date: 10 February 2021
Title: UN Secretary-General on Myanmar (Myanmar version follows English)
Content: 10 February 2021
In an interview with Channel News Asia on February 10, UN Secretary-General António Guterres said: "I would like to say to the military of Myanmar that they need to immediately release the prisoners. They need to immediately recognize the results of the elections. They need to immediately put in place again their constitutional order."



Myanmar translation

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/111490-un-secretary-general-myanmar-myanmar-version-follows-english




Date: 09 February 2021
Title: UNICEF calls for greater attention to protection of children’s rights in Myanmar during time of crisis
Content: 09 February 2021
YANGON –  UNICEF expresses deep concern regarding the impact of the ongoing crisis in Myanmar on children’s wellbeing and reminds all actors of their obligations to uphold all children’s rights as enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), to which Myanmar is a State Party, and under the Myanmar Child Rights Law enacted in July 2019.
These rights include the rights to protection, participation, peaceful assembly and freedom of expression. They also include freedom from unlawful or arbitrary detention or separation from parents. In crisis situations, children are often disproportionally affected, and it is essential that all actors uphold the best interests of the child, one of the core principles of the CRC, as a primary consideration.
In the context of ongoing demonstrations and current events, and reports of injuries, some potentially fatal, UNICEF calls on all actors, including security forces, to exercise the utmost restraint, to resolve differences through constructive and peaceful means, and to prioritize the protection and safety of children and young people as they express their opinions.
In times of crisis, children often experience greater stress and risks, and may require additional protection. The following contacts and resources may be useful to children, parents and caregivers to provide protection and support:
• NGO-operated helplines for mental health and psychosocial support (MHPSS):
− On MPT network, call 08008009933
− On OOREDOO network, call 9933
• Justice Tip Sheet with information for use in the event of arbitrary detention of children
• Additional resources could be found on UNICEF’s parenting portal.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/112219-unicef-calls-greater-attention-protection-children%E2%80%99s-rights-myanmar-during-time-crisis




Date: 09 February 2021
Title: The United Nations in Myanmar expresses strong concern at reports of use of force by security forces in response to demonstrations (Scroll down for Myanmar version)
Content: 09 February 2021
Yangon - The United Nations in Myanmar has expressed strong concern by today’s reported use of force by security forces against demonstrators.
According to reports from Nay Pyi Taw, Mandalay and other cities, numerous demonstrators have been injured, some of them seriously, by security forces in connection with the current protests across the country.
“I call on the Security Forces to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression,” Ola Almgren, the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar, said. “The use of disproportionate force against demonstrators is unacceptable.”
He went on to reiterate the words of the United Nations Secretary-General urging the military leadership to respect the will of the people of Myanmar and adhere to democratic norms, with any differences to be resolved through peaceful dialogue.
Myanmar version Link
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/111127-united-nations-myanmar-expresses-strong-concern-reports-use-force-security-forces-response




Date: 04 February 2021
Title: UN Security Council Press Statement on the situation in Myanmar
Content: 04 February 2021
The following Security Council press statement was issued today by Council President Barbara Woodward (United Kingdom):
The members of the Security Council expressed deep concern at the declaration of the state of emergency imposed in Myanmar by the military on 1 February and the arbitrary detention of members of the Government, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint and others.  They called for the immediate release of all those detained.
The members of the Security Council emphasized the need for the continued support of the democratic transition in Myanmar.  They stressed the need to uphold democratic institutions and processes, refrain from violence and fully respect human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.  They encouraged the pursuance of dialogue and reconciliation in accordance with the will and interests of the people of Myanmar.
The members of the Security Council expressed concern at the restrictions on civil society, journalists and media workers.  They also called for safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all people in need, including through the re‑establishment of United Nations relief flights.
The members of the Security Council reiterated their strong support to regional organizations, in particular the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and welcomed the ASEAN Chair’s Statement dated 1 February.  They also reiterated their support to the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar for her good offices.
The members of the Security Council reiterated the need to address the root causes of the crisis in Rakhine State and to create conditions necessary for the safe, voluntary, sustainable and dignified return of displaced persons.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed their strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/110643-un-security-council-press-statement-situation-myanmar




Date: 01 February 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary General - on Myanmar
Content: 01 February 2021
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the detention of State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, President U Win Myint and other political leaders on the eve of the opening session of Myanmar’s new Parliament.  He expresses his grave concern regarding the declaration of the transfer of all legislative, executive and judicial powers to the military.  These developments represent a serious blow to democratic reforms in Myanmar.
The 8 November 2020 general elections provide a strong mandate to the National League for Democracy (NLD), reflecting the clear will of the people of Myanmar to continue on the hard-won path of democratic reform.  The Secretary-General urges the military leadership to respect the will of the people of Myanmar and adhere to democratic norms, with any differences to be resolved through peaceful dialogue. All leaders must act in the greater interest of Myanmar’s democratic reform, engaging in meaningful dialogue, refraining from violence and fully respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The Secretary-General reaffirms the unwavering support of the United Nations to the people of Myanmar in their pursuit of democracy, peace, human rights and the rule of law.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 31 January 2021
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/109983-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar%C2%A0




Date: 28 January 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 28 January 2021
The Secretary-General is following with great concern recent developments in Myanmar.
He urges all actors to desist from any form of incitement or provocation, demonstrate leadership, and to adhere to democratic norms and respecting the outcome of the 8 November general election.  All electoral disputes should be resolved through established legal mechanisms.
The Secretary-General reaffirms the support of the United Nations to the people and Government of Myanmar in their pursuit of peace, inclusive sustainable development, humanitarian action, human rights and rule of law.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/109636-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 27 January 2021
Title: One million people in conflict-affected areas in Myanmar need humanitarian assistance
Content: 27 January 2021
(Yangon): The United Nations and humanitarian partners have issued the 2021 Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP), which seeks to mobilize US$276.5 million for humanitarian assistance and protection services for around 945,000 people in Kachin, Kayin and eastern Bago, Rakhine and southern Chin as well as northern Shan.
“The HRP explains how we aim to provide comprehensive humanitarian support to those who need it most,” said the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Myanmar, Mr. Ola Almgren, adding that the HRP places protection and respect for human rights at the center of an inclusive response effort.
The 2021 HRP builds on partnerships with national partners and local civil society actors, that were strengthened as the humanitarian response adjusted to new operational realities in 2020 due to the outbreak of COVID-19. The plan also seeks to strengthen links with longer-term development planning frameworks. “With an estimated 336,000 displaced people in locations covered by the HRP, of whom some 250,000 are in situations of protracted displacement, supporting progress towards durable solutions, in close coordination with local partners and the Government of Myanmar, will also be critical,” added Mr. Almgren.
“We are grateful to the donors and member states for their continued engagement and support over the years” said Mr. Almgren, noting that generous financial support has allowed the response to adapt to an often unpredictable situation on the ground, not least due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, US$185 million was mobilized through the HRP, representing 67 per cent of total funding requirements, including the COVID-19 response in humanitarian settings. This has made a real difference in the lives of hundreds of thousands of people in conflict-affected areas. Close to one quarter of a million people in humanitarian settings were able to access essential healthcare services. Some 930,000 people received food assistance and 200,000 were reached with specialized protection services. Humanitarian organizations also provided nutrition support to more than 83,000 children and women, and shelter and essential household items for close to 240,000, as well as enabling access to safe drinking water for around 390,000 people and providing critical educational assistance for more than 75,000 boys and girls.
Despite these and other efforts, very significant humanitarian challenges remain to be addressed in 2021. “We need to build on what we have learned in 2020 and work closely with the authorities and local partners to further extend our reach this year. A key part of this is ensuring safe and predictable access to those in greatest need of our help,” said Mr. Almgren.
End
Click here to read the 2021 Humanitarian Response Plan.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/109393-one-million-people-conflict-affected-areas-myanmar-need-humanitarian-assistance




Date: 21 January 2021
Title: Italy provides viral support to Yangon Government COVID-19 response
Content: 21 January 2021
YANGON, MYANMAR – The Yangon Region Government, Italy and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP)  today marked the contribution of 1 million EURO from the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) in support of the COVID-19 response, with a ceremony at Aung Myint Moh treatment center in South Dagon Township, Yangon Region.
The Italian contribution has helped WFP provide daily nutritious meals for over 16,000 people, who were receiving medical and quarantine care at Aung Myint Moh, the  largest COVID-19 treatment center in Yangon Region in terms of bed capacity.
The Ambassador of Italy to Myanmar, H.E. Alessandra Schiavo, said, “COVID-19 is a humanitarian tragedy of global proportions, which requires a strong and coordinated approach. Italy is close to Myanmar and its people and will continue to engage worldwide to overcome the pandemic, by supporting populations in need, by strengthening and funding the research for a vaccine, and by organizing the Global Health Summit, next 21 May in Rome, to make sure we will all get better prepared for future health challenges. Our support today to the Yangon Region and WFP is part of this vision, and part of our longstanding commitment in support of  Myanmar’s sustainable development and stability.”
H.E. U Phyo Min Thein, Chief Minister of the Yangon Region Government said, “The fact that there are good-will supporters for the people of Myanmar really raises up the spirits of those receiving medical care at COVID-19 centers like here.”
The assistance is guided by WFP’s expertise in meal preparation and high levels of food safety standards.
WFP’s Deputy Country Director Marcus Prior said, “Thanks to the excellent coordination by the Yangon Region Government and generous contribution from Italy, our food assistance have reinforced the Government of Myanmar’s front-line fight against the second surge of COVID-19 in an area with one of the most pressing needs for support.”
Yangon has been the most affected region in Myanmar following an exponential increase in local transmission of COVID-19 since mid-August. WFP meals are prepared with high food safety standards, adequately meet daily nutrition needs for patients, including those being treated for COVID-19 infection.
Assisting the Government in curbing the pandemic  has been a priority for the Italian Agency for Development and Cooperation since the beginning of the health crisis.
“With this specific intervention we want to provide our contribution to alleviate the direct consequences of the pandemic on the most vulnerable populations. The support of the international community has become imperative in order to complement the efforts of the Myanmar Government in this direction, and today AICS confirms to be an active stakeholder, thanks to the strong and effective collaboration with WFP,” said Walter Zucconi, Head of Office, AICS Yangon.
In Rakhine State, WFP has provided food assistance to 60 quarantine sites in eight townships since September 2020. Over 100,000 returning migrants undergoing quarantine in 11 states and regions have also received food and nutrition support from WFP.
#                                           #                                           #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/109015-italy-provides-viral-support-yangon-government-covid-19-response




Date: 12 January 2021
Title: UNICEF Myanmar Statement on the fatal explosion of an ordnance in Minbya Town
Content: 12 January 2021
Yangon – UNICEF Myanmar expresses deep sorrow over the reported death of a woman and the injury of five children, following the detonation of an unexploded bomb found at a farm near Sa Par Htar village, northeast of Minbya Town, Rakhine State, on 10 January.
UNICEF remains deeply concerned about the alarming increase in child deaths and injuries by landmines and unexploded ordnance (UXO) in Myanmar. Between January and September 2020, 56 children were severely injured, and 13 children died from explosion of landmines and UXOs.
More than one third of the reported casualties from landmine and UXO explosions in Myanmar are children; Rakhine State has the highest rate of reported child casualties with children accounting for 47 per cent of the total. Between January and September 2020, 49 children were killed and 134 maimed as a direct result of the conflict in Myanmar. This is more than the total casualties of 2019 or 2018.
The safety and rights of children must be the primary consideration in all contexts. Landmines and UXOs often result in civilian casualties, with children the most vulnerable. Since children are smaller than adults, they are more likely to take the full impact of the blast and are therefore more likely to suffer death or serious injury.
UNICEF urges all parties to the conflict to stop laying mines and to clear existing mines and unexploded ordnance to ensure the safety of children caught up in conflict, and to uphold their right to protection.
UNICEF also urges the Government of Myanmar to facilitate access for the provision of emergency Mine Risk Education activities so that children and other community members receive psychosocial support and mine risk education in schools and communities in all conflict-affected areas of Myanmar.
Our thoughts go to the families of the victims and to all children who remain in harm’s way.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/108003-unicef-myanmar-statement-fatal-explosion-ordnance-minbya-town




Date: 28 December 2020
Title: UNFPA delivers 40,000 COVID-19 Ag Test Kits to support the Government of Myanmar’s prevention and response to the COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 28 December 2020
Yangon, Myanmar - The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) delivers 40,000 COVID-19 rapid antigen test kits to the Ministry of Health and Sports to support the Government of Myanmar’s effort to prevent transmission and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic efficiently while ensuring continuity of life-saving sexual and reproductive health services for women and girls.
The official handover of 40,000 test kits was organized at Department of Medical Research in Yangon on 24 December 2020. Dr. Hlaing Myat Thu, Deputy Director General of Department of Medical Research received the UNFPA’s donation of the COVID-19 Antigen Test Kits from Mr. Ramanathan Balakrishnan, UNFPA Country Representative for Myanmar.
As part of the coordinated UN response to COVID-19 pandemic, UNFPA works closely with MOHS on the COVID-19 responses through the MOHS-UN Joint Task Force on COVID-19.  UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive agency, is working with government & non-government partners to strengthen health systems and ensuring availability and accessibility of quality sexual and reproductive health services in any kind of emergency context, including COVID-19 pandemic. The UNFPA response to the COVID-19 pandemic involves a multi-pronged approach: ensure safety and wellbeing of healthcare providers; equip them with skills and knowledge to ensure continuity of lifesaving quality health care using digital platform; support continuation of sexual and reproductive health services by government and non-government partners; maintain and update ongoing Logistics Management Information System to ensure commodities security and incorporate COVID-19 related stock into the systems in close collaboration and coordination with MOHS and other UN agencies. With an aim to ensure essential health systems continuity, particularly with respect to sexual and reproductive health services, UNFPA has handed over more than 10,000  PPE kits to both Government and Non-government front-line service providers.
Dr. Hlaing Myat Thu, Deputy Director General of Department of Medical Research said, “Early detection and containment of COVID-19 positive cases is still an essential and extremely important process in order to cut the chain of transmission and effectively control the spread of disease.”
The role of Rapid Antigen Tests (RDTs) in Myanmar has grown significantly and has strengthened the MoHS capacity to test cases with COVID-19 symptoms, patients under investigation, patients in quarantine centres, people in urgent medical need and those who have contact with a known COVID-19 patient. “As the results of a Rapid Antigen Test are available within 30 minutes, it is of advantage that decisions can be made much more quickly and infection contained effectively in the nick of time. Thus, the importance and requirement of these Rapid Antigen Test kits are truly an evidence-based reality,” Dr. Hlaing Myat Thu added.
The expansion in testing has been very instrumental in Myanmar getting a grip on the COVID-19 situation after the peak of second wave during September-October 2020. “As the Government of Myanmar engages with the COVAX facility to source COVID-19 vaccines in 2021, the fight is far from over. This is a marathon and we need to continue to remain cautious, vigilant, creative and proactive to reach the finish line. 40,000 test kits, while a significant number, may not be much compared to the daily testing numbers; But, every drop counts..”, said Mr. Ramanathan Balakrishnan, UNFPA Country Representative for Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/106427-unfpa-delivers-40000-covid-19-ag-test-kits-support-government-myanmar%E2%80%99s-prevention-and




Date: 16 December 2020
Title: UNHCR contributes 50,000 additional test kits in support of Myanmar’s COVID-19 pandemic response
Content: 16 December 2020

YANGON, Myanmar – As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect the lives of millions across Myanmar, UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is expanding its support to the Government of Myanmar's national response.
On 16 December, UNHCR handed over 50,000 Cobas SARS-CoV-2 Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test kits to the Union Ministry of Health and Sports in Nay Pyi Taw.
The arrival of the test kits adds on to an earlier contribution of 20,000 kits by UNHCR and WFP in July. Collectively, over 145,000 test kits have been handed over to Government by the wider United Nations system as part of a joint response to date.
“UNHCR continues to support the Government’s nationwide efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic and ensure that vulnerable communities are not left out”, said UNHCR Representative in Myanmar Ms. Hai Kyung Jun.
The Refugee Agency has so far equipped over 400 quarantine centres with basic items such as beds, blankets, kitchen sets and hygiene kits, and distributed 685,200 pieces of personal protective equipment (PPE) for front-line workers and vulnerable communities, including gloves, masks, disposable gowns and face shields. An additional batch of 367,000 N95 masks is expected to arrive by the end of the year and will be distributed to counterpart ministries.
UNHCR has also stepped-up campaigns to raise awareness on COVID-19 prevention in camps and sites for internally displaced people and stateless persons, as well as health, water, sanitation and hygiene services in these locations by installing new water points and distributing hygiene items such as soap and hand sanitizer.
To date, over 670,000 people across Kachin, Rakhine and Shan states as well as the South East region of Myanmar have benefitted from the collective efforts of the Government, UNHCR, sister UN agencies and partner humanitarian organizations in providing life-saving assistance to those in need.
Read more about UNHCR’s COVID-19 response in Myanmar here.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/105507-unhcr-contributes-50000-additional-test-kits-support-myanmar%E2%80%99s-covid-19-pandemic-response




Date: 02 December 2020
Title: UN in Myanmar staff training on Intimate Partner Violence
Content: 02 December 2020
Yangon: The United Nations Country Team in Myanmar has launched a new handbook for its staff to enable them to better understand domestic and intimate partner violence and how to address the issue.
The book provides a broad range of information and resources for those seeking assistance or wanting to learn more about intimate partner violence, including options for how to respond.
It also includes information for perpetrators of intimate partner violence to recognize their own violent behaviours that need to be stopped and  seek further support services.
The UN Country Team which consists of the heads of about 21 UN agencies in Myanmar, says the book constitutes an important addition to UN agencies’ induction training for new personnel.
“Violence against women is one of the most serious, life threatening and widespread violations of human rights,” the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Ola Almgren told staff when launching the book during 16 Days of Activism to Prevent Gender Based Violence which runs from November 25 to December 10.
“It is our collective responsibility to ensure UN staff in Myanmar are equipped with essential knowledge on how to recognize intimate partner violence and where to seek help and support for themselves or those affected by violence,” said Mr. Almgren.
“This resource book is one step towards making our homes, workplaces and communities into safer places where violence is not acceptable.“
Intimate partner violence usually consists of a pattern of assaultive and coercive behaviours, including physical, sexual and psychological attacks, as well as economic coercion, by a current or former intimate partner.
It can occur within heterosexual or same-sex relationships and does not require sexual relations.
Violence committed by an intimate partner – whether a current or former spouse, boyfriend, girlfriend or dating partner – has devastating physical, emotional, financial, and social effects on women, children, families, and communities.
Mr. Almgren said perpetrating intimate partner violence goes against everything that UN agencies stand for.
“Myanmar is not spared the scourge of domestic violence, neither are United Nations staff members and their families.
“Some of us might have encountered at some point in our career, a colleague who had suffered from domestic violence. And some of us might even had to deal with colleagues who regrettably were the abusers.
“The United Nations has zero tolerance for abuse of authority, sexual abuse and harassment.
“But having zero tolerance for violence and abuse is not enough.  As an organization, we must also ensure that our staff members are informed about intimate partner violence and that survivors of violence receive the support they need.”
“As UN staff it is our duty, whatever our line of work, to be strong advocates for the rights of women and girls in Myanmar, to say no to violence against women and to speak out when we see it. We must do so not only because it is the right thing to do but also because stopping violence against women and girls is key to the prosperity of families and communities and contributes to a more peaceful and inclusive society.”
The handbook was jointly created by United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women).
ends

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/103296-un-myanmar-staff-training-intimate-partner-violence




Date: 25 November 2020
Title: 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence
Content: 25 November 2020
Yangon: The United Nations in Myanmar has called on the Assembly of the Union to adopt a comprehensive Protection and Prevention of Violence against Women Law.
The UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar, Mr Ola Almgren, was speaking at a high-level event marking the International Day to End Violence Against Women and launching 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence.
“The adoption of the Protection and Prevention of Violence against Women law and other gender-responsive legislation would be an important step, as they not only help to protect women and girls from abuse, but also to hold perpetrators of violence accountable,” Mr. Almgren said.
“I am confident that the elected Members of Parliament recognise the significance of this law and will take decisive action towards its timely adoption. Such legislation must be in line with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, ratified by Myanmar already in 1997.”
Mr Almgren was speaking at the online event organized by the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement to highlight the problem of violence against women, which he said had been exacerbated through the COVID-19 crisis.
“There are worrying signs that cases of intimate partner violence have increased especially during times when stay-at-home orders are in place. Lockdown restrictions and working from home arrangements are designed to protect us from the pandemic, but they have unfortunately left many survivors trapped behind closed doors with their abusers.”
Mr Almgren said important progress has been made by the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement, and the Ministry of Health and Sports, to develop the response to gender-based violence.
“While these developments are promising, we must continue working together to remove remaining barriers survivors face when trying to access essential services.”
“There is a need to continue existing health care-, justice-, policing- and social services for survivors, while increasing their accessibility in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.”
“At the same time, we also have to scale up gender-based violence prevention and response services, such as hotlines, safe houses, government subsidies, awareness-raising through radio, television and social media.”
“I encourage government agencies and related organizations working on social protection to prioritize resources to respond to incidents of gender-based violence and to develop specific plans on how to respond to such incidents during and after the emergency.”
Ends
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/102250-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence




Date: 23 November 2020
Title: Statement on the Killing of U Htike Zaw
Content: 23 November 2020
The United Nations in Myanmar condemns the killing of newly-elected Member of Parliament (Amyotha Hluttaw) for the National League for Democracy (NLD), U Htike Zaw.
Yangon –  The United Nations in Myanmar condemns the killing of newly-elected Member of Parliament (Amyotha Hluttaw) for the National League for Democracy (NLD), U Htike Zaw, which occurred in Kyaukme Township in Shan State on 21 November 2020. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and friends, and hope those responsible can be swiftly identified and brought to justice.
ENDS

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/102007-statement-killing-u-htike-zaw




Date: 20 November 2020
Title: UN CTFMR signs Joint Action Plan with Democratic Karen Benevolent Army to end use and recruitment of children
Content: 20 November 2020
YANGON – Today, in a virtual ceremony, the UN Country Task Force on Monitoring and Reporting (CTFMR) on grave violations against children in Myanmar signed its first ever bilateral Joint Action Plan (JAP) with an Ethnic Armed Organisation, the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army (DKBA). The DKBA has been listed in the UN Secretary-General’s Annual Report on Children and Armed Conflict since 2013 for recruitment and use of children. The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, Virginia Gamba, also joined the ceremony, signing the joint action plan as a witness. The historic event was also attended by the Chairman of the Peace Commission of the National Reconciliation and Peace Centre, Dr Tin Myo Win, diplomatic corps in Myanmar and UN agencies.
“The CTFMR commends the commitment made today by the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army to end and prevent the recruitment and use of children. It is an important step towards the protection of children and communities affected by armed conflict,” said the Co-Chairs of the CTFMR, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Ola Almgren, and UNICEF Representative to Myanmar, June Kunugi.
The signature and implementation of the Joint Action Plan represent important steps towards the eventual delisting of the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army. While the group was originally listed in 2013, there have not been reports of any grave violations committed by the DKBA in any subsequent annual report. However, they remain listed because no delisting is possible before the signing and completion of a joint action plan with the UN as per the UN Security Council mechanism on Children and Armed Conflict.
“The Democratic Karen Benevolent Army has engaged with the CTFMR since 2017, with the intention to sign and implement a joint action plan. We are keen to demonstrate that we no longer have children in our ranks nor are we committing any other grave violations,” said General Saw Mu Shae, Commander in Chief of the DKBA. “Through signature and implementation of the plan, we are seeking to clear our name and ensure delisting from the UN Secretary-General's Annual Report.”
Aimed specifically at preventing the recruitment and use of children, the Joint Action Plan will also seek to sustainably prevent all grave violations against children more broadly. The JAP includes a number of key steps, including: Monitoring: joint verification, together with the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army, that there are no children in the group’s ranks; Reintegration: if children are found within the ranks they will be released and supported to reintegrate into civilian life; Prevention: to ensure that children are not recruited in the future; Accountability: the enforcement of systematic and appropriate disciplinary measures against
any troops found to be recruiting or using children, or committing other grave violations. The duration of implementation of a joint action plan is expected to last a minimum of 18 months.
“Being a trailblazer takes a lot of courage and I commend General Saw Mu Shae, as well as all the members of the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army, for their commitment to child protection. This is a proof of your willingness to abide by national and international norms and your pursuit of dialogue, which hopefully can also lead to lasting peace,” said Special Representative Gamba.
The Chair of the Union Peace Commission, Dr. Tin Myo Win, who attended the signing ceremony, on his part said, “The protection of children affected by armed conflict should always be an integral part of any peace process. Having fully recognized this, we have incorporated strong provisions to prevent grave violations against children in conflict situation in our Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement.”
Last year, the national legal framework to protect children affected by armed conflict in Myanmar was strengthened by the landmark adoption of the Child Rights Law and the ratification by Myanmar of the Optional Protocol (OPAC) of the UN Child Rights Convention (CRC) on the involvement of children in armed conflict.
Despite tremendous progress, children still bear the brunt of armed conflict in Myanmar. It is hoped that this ground-breaking event will set an important precedent, encouraging broader engagement of ethnic armed groups and signature and implementation of further JAPs with the other Ethnic Armed Organizations also listed in the annexes of the UN Secretary-General's Annual Report on Children and Armed Conflict.
“Keeping children away from armed forces and armed groups can play an important role in bringing about a sustainable peace in Myanmar. We look forward to working with the DKBA in the implementation of this Joint Action Plan,” added the Co-Chairs of the CTFMR.
BACKGROUND
In addition to the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army (DKBA), there are six Ethnic Armed Groups listed by the UN Secretary-General as perpetrators of recruitment and use of children in Myanmar. They are the:
1. Kachin Independence Army (KIA)
2. Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA)
3. Karen National Union/Karen National Liberation Army Peace Council (KNU/KNLA-PC)
4. Karenni Army (KA)
5. Shan State Army South (SSA-S)
6. United Wa State Army (UWSA)
The Myanmar Armed Forces, Tatmadaw, which has been provisionally de-listed in this year’s report for recruitment and use, had been listed for this violation since 2003. The Tatmadaw remain listed for two other grave violations: killing and maiming; and rape and other forms of sexual violence. The listing and de-listing of parties to conflict is the decision of the UN Secretary-General.
ABOUT THE UN COUNTRY TASKFORCE ON MONITORING AND REPORTING (CTFMR) ON GRAVE VIOLATIONS AGAINST CHILDREN
United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 1612 mandates the UN to establish UN-led CTFMRs in countries where there is verified evidence that Grave Violations against children are being committed by parties to a conflict, either by armed forces and/or by armed groups. The CTFMR is tasked with establishing a Monitoring and Reporting Mechanism (MRM) which documents, verifies and reports to the UNSC on Grave Violations against children. The six Grave Violations that are monitored and reported are:
· killing or maiming of children
· recruitment and use of children in armed forces and armed groups
· attacks against schools or hospitals
· rape or other grave sexual violence
· abduction of children
· denial of humanitarian access for children
The CTFMR is also mandated to provide a coordinated response to such grave violations. The CTFMR was established in Myanmar in 2007 and is co-chaired by the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Ola Almgren, and the UNICEF Representative to Myanmar, June Kunugi. The CTFMR in Myanmar includes relevant UN agencies (the UN RCO, UNICEF, ILO, UNFPA, UNHCR, UN OCHA, and WFP), Save the Children and World Vision.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/101621-un-ctfmr-signs-joint-action-plan-democratic-karen-benevolent-army-end-use-and-recruitment




Date: 20 November 2020
Title: On World Children’s Day, a new hope for children in Myanmar: The Democratic Karen Benevolent Army signs a Joint Action Plan to End & Prevent the Recruitment and Use of Children
Content: 20 November 2020
New York: On the occasion of the World Children’s Day, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, Ms. Virginia Gamba, witnessed virtually the signature of the Joint Action Plan between the United Nations and the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army (DBKA), the first Action Plan of its kind with an armed group in Myanmar to end and prevent the recruitment and use of children.
“Being a trailblazer takes a lot of courage, and I commend General Saw Mu Shae and all the members of the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army for their commitment to the protection of children,” said the Special Representative during the signing ceremony.  “This is a proof of your willingness to abide by national and international norms and your pursuit of dialogue, which hopefully can also lead to lasting peace,” she added.
“I believe this first Joint Action Plan signed today with an armed group in Myanmar will bring positive change for children while reinforcing the dialogue in the ongoing peace processes,” noted the Special Representative recalling the recent  5th anniversary of the signing of the National Ceasefire Agreement.
She commended the UN Country Task Force on Monitoring and Reporting (CTFMR), led by UNICEF and the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office, for their tireless efforts to engage with the various parties to conflict in Myanmar, and shared her strong desire for them to continue this important work. She hoped that more Action Plans may soon be signed and implemented with parties listed in annexes of the Secretary-General’s annual report on children and armed conflict.
The Special Representative also thanked His Excellency Dr. Tin Myo Win, the Chairman of the Peace Commission and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Myanmar for their continued support to the United Nations in facilitating the implementation of the Children and Armed Conflict mandate in Myanmar. “This high level of support is an indication of the serious commitment of the Government and the National Reconciliation and Peace Center towards the peace process. Protecting children from the devastating effects of armed conflict and supporting those young people who have been associated with armed forces and armed groups to safely return to civilian life through the provision of tailored and long-term reintegration programs will contribute to bringing about sustainable peace in Myanmar,” highlighted the Special Representative.
Lastly, the Special Representative called on all parties to conflict in Myanmar to continue enhancing their efforts to put an immediate end to all violations against children, especially the recruitment and use, killing and maiming, and sexual violence. “I express my sincere hope that other armed groups will enter into Action Plans with the UN in the near future,” she concluded.
###
Note to editors
In addition to the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army (DKBA), there are six armed groups listed in the annexes of the annual report of the Secretary-General on children and armed conflict for the recruitment and use of children in Myanmar:
1. United Wa State Army
2. Kachin Independence Army
3. Karenni Army
4. Karen National Liberation Army Peace Council
5. Shan State Army South
6. Karen National Liberation Army
The Myanmar Armed Forces, Tatmadaw, have been de-listed from the annexes of the 2020 annual report of the Secretary-General on children and armed conflict for recruitment and use, for which they were listed since 2003. The Tatmadaw remain listed for two violations: killing and maiming of children, and rape and other forms of sexual violence against children.
###
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/101806-world-children%E2%80%99s-day-new-hope-children-myanmar-democratic-karen-benevolent-army-signs-joint




Date: 19 November 2020
Title: Media advisory: First ever signing of a Joint Action Plan between the UN CTFMR and an Ethnic Armed Organization, the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army (DKBA), to end and prevent the recruitment and use of children
Content: 19 November 2020
The signing ceremony will take place virtually. Video recording of the event and a press release will be shared with media after the event.
WHAT: Virtual signing ceremony of a bilateral joint action plan (JAP) between the UN Country Task Force of Monitoring and Reporting (CTFMR) on grave violations against children in Myanmar and an Ethnic Armed Organisation, the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army (DKBA) to end and prevent the recruitment and use of children.
WHO: Co-chairs of the CTFMR, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Ola Almgren UNICEF Representative to Myanmar, June Kunugi, and General Saw Mu Shay of the DKBA will sign the joint action plan witnessed by the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General on Children and Armed Conflict, Virginia Gamba. The virtual event will also be attended by the Chairman of the Peace Commission of the National Reconciliation and Peace Centre, Dr Tin Myo Win, diplomatic corps and UN agencies.
WHEN: 09.00am -10.00am (GMT+6:30) Friday 20 November 2020.
WHERE: The signing ceremony will take place virtually. Video recording of the event and a press release will be shared with media after the event.
WHY: The JAP is aimed at preventing the recruitment and use of children, for which the DKBA has been listed in the UN Secretary-General’s Annual Report on Children and Armed Conflict AAC since 2013. However, the JAP will also seek to sustainably prevent all grave violations more broadly. It is hoped that this ground-breaking event will set an important precedent, encouraging broader engagement of ethnic armed groups and signature and implementation of further JAPs with the other Ethnic Armed Organizations also listed in the annexes of the Secretary-General's Annual Report on Children and Armed Conflict.
###
Note to Editors
Report of the UN Secretary-General on Children and Armed Conflict (2020) https://bit.ly/2UDB1FB
Video of the Open Debate of UN Security Council on Children and Armed Conflict https://bit.ly/3pBqXuS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/101371-media-advisory-first-ever-signing-joint-action-plan-between-un-ctfmr-and-ethnic-armed




Date: 11 November 2020
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on attacks against journalists in conflict zones
Content: 11 November 2020
The Secretary-General remains deeply concerned about attacks against journalists and media workers around the world, including in conflict zones. He condemns all attacks and killings of journalists and calls for concerted efforts to tackle widespread impunity for such crimes.
In 2018-2019, UNESCO documented 67 killings of journalists in countries experiencing armed conflict, among which 23 were directly involved in covering the conflict. Apart from fatal attacks, journalists covering conflicts face a range of other threats including violence leading to injuries, arbitrary detention, denial of visas and restrictions to movement in, across or out of conflict zones.
The fundamental role of journalists in ensuring access to reliable information is essential to achieving durable peace, sustainable development and human rights.  The Secretary-General recalls that civilians, including civilian journalists engaged in professional missions in areas of armed conflict, must be respected and protected under international humanitarian law. He calls on all parties to conflict, and the international community as a whole, to protect journalists and enable conditions for the exercise of their profession.
New York.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/100293-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-attacks-against-journalists-conflict




Date: 06 November 2020
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on Myanmar
Content: 06 November 2020
The Secretary-General will follow the upcoming general elections in Myanmar on 8 November.
He notes that the holding of peaceful, orderly and credible elections is an important opportunity to help advance inclusive sustainable development, humanitarian action, human rights and democratic reforms, including civilian control over the military. He hopes they will also help pave the way for refugee returns in safety and dignity.
The Secretary-General renews his appeal for a ceasefire across the country to allow all to focus on combatting the COVID-19 pandemic. He remains concerned about armed conflict in many areas of Myanmar, especially the intensifying clashes in Rakhine and Chin states, which continue to take a heavy toll on vulnerable civilians.
The Secretary-General urges all parties to the armed conflict to respect their obligations under international humanitarian law and to protect civilians and civilian infrastructure. Unimpeded humanitarian access for the United Nations and its partners is crucial.
At this critical juncture for the people of Myanmar, the Secretary-General reaffirms the support of the United Nations in their pursuit of lives in dignity and peace.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/99536-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 27 October 2020
Title: OHCHR Statement - Myanmar
Content: 27 October 2020
We have serious concerns about the human rights situation in Myanmar ahead of its general elections on 8 November. These include violations of the right to political participation, particularly of minority groups -- including, disproportionately, the Rohingya Muslim and ethnic Rakhine population in Rakhine State.
While the elections represent an important milestone in Myanmar’s democratic transition, the civic space is still marred by continuing restrictions of the freedoms of opinion, expression and access to information, and the use of language that could amount to incitement to discrimination, hostility and violence.
Myanmar’s discriminatory citizenship and electoral laws confer different sets of political rights to different classes of citizens, affecting most clearly the Muslim minorities who are largely excluded from citizenship. Additionally, there has been significant disenfranchisement resulting from the Union Election Commission’s announcement on 16 October that elections would not be taking place in 56 townships, including in Rakhine State. The Commission did not provide public justification for its decision – which curtails the right to political participation in areas with ethnic minority populations in a discriminatory fashion.
An internet shutdown effectively remains in place in eight townships in Rakhine and Chin states, severely limiting the ability of residents to enjoy their right to receive and impart information, including on COVID-19 and the elections. Blanket internet shutdowns may be counterproductive and contravene international law. Again, the measure disproportionately affects minority groups, including the ethnic Rakhine, Rohingya, Kaman, Mro, Daingnet, Khami and Chin communities.
While the restrictions on freedom of expression continue to mount, we deplore the unrelenting proliferation of hateful speech against Muslims on Facebook. We understand Facebook has made certain efforts to identify and remove hateful speech from its platform. We call on the Government of Myanmar to take action in line with the Presidential Directive 3/2020 of April this year to denounce such hateful language publicly and to promote tolerance, non-discrimination and pluralism in speech by public officials and electoral candidates.
We are also troubled at the intolerance for criticism against the Government or the military, known as the Tatmadaw. Over the past two months, at least 34 student activists have found themselves facing legal measures, including charges of unlawful assembly and inciting public mischief, after they called for an end to the conflicts in Rakhine and Chin states, for reinstatement of 4G mobile internet services in those areas, and for the release of other detained student activists. Four of the students have been convicted, with two of them sentenced to over six years’ imprisonment. We urge the Government to drop charges against all those facing legal action for exercising their right to freedom of expression – a right that is particularly precious in a pre-electoral context.
We also call on the Government to take measures to ensure that the right to political participation can be exercised by all, without discrimination of any kind.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/97625-ohchr-statement-myanmar




Date: 24 October 2020
Title: WFP News Release: WFP launches domestic flights in Myanmar to support COVID-19 response and humanitarian operations
Content: 24 October 2020
YANGON, MYANMAR – A United Nations chartered flight, operated by the World Food Programme (WFP), departed from Yangon today transporting medical supplies and front-line aid workers to support the COVID-19 response and humanitarian operations in Rakhine State.   WFP arranged this humanitarian flight because domestic commercial air services have been temporarily suspended in Myanmar in September, as part of the Government’s efforts to control COVID-19 transmissions.  Moreover, access by road and sea between Yangon and Sittwe is currently not practically feasible.
“WFP is proud to organize these flights and support the logistics and common services response of the humanitarian community in Myanmar,” said Mr Stephen Anderson, Representative and Country Director of WFP in Myanmar. “We plan to arrange additional flights as needed to facilitate the movement of critical staff providing front-line assistance to the COVID-19 response and humanitarian operations.”
With support from the Ministry of Health and Sports (MoHS), passengers underwent COVID-19 testing prior to their travel and are required to strictly adhere to MoHS and other government measures related to air travel and quarantine.
The flight was made possible thanks to funding support from the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO), and facilitation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Health and Sports, the Department of Civil Aviation and other partners.
Meanwhile, WFP’s flights connecting Yangon, Vientiane and Kuala Lumpur, which commenced in early May due to the temporary suspension of international commercial flights, continue to operate on a weekly basis, bringing into Myanmar medical supplies and aid workers. WFP’s food assistance, as part of its COVID-19 response, also remains ongoing at quarantine and treatment centers and border gates in various parts of the country.
Read more about WFP’s COVID-19 response in Myanmar here.
#                                           #                                           #
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/97162-wfp-news-release-wfp-launches-domestic-flights-myanmar-support-covid-19-response-and




Date: 22 October 2020
Title: Conference on Sustaining Support for the Rohingya Refugee Response 22 October 2020
Content: 22 October 2020
Joint Closing Announcement by Co-Hosts
We are grateful to all who have participated in today’s conference, including those who have announced or pledged funding for the international humanitarian response, those who are supporting members of the Rohingya communities in other ways—not least by hosting them—and most importantly, representatives of Rohingya communities themselves.
The situation in the region remains an acute humanitarian and human rights crisis more than three years after the August 2017 violence, which caused hundreds of thousands of Rohingya people to flee their homes in Myanmar to seek safety in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh.  There are currently 860,000 Rohingya refugees in Cox’s Bazar district. There are an estimated 600,000 Rohingya people in Myanmar’s Rakhine State who face ongoing violence and discrimination, and Malaysia, India, Indonesia, and other countries in the region are together hosting nearly 150,000 Rohingya refugees.
The voluntary, safe, dignified, and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees and others internally displaced to their places of origin or of their own choosing in Myanmar is the comprehensive solution that we seek along with Rohingya people themselves. To that end, we underscore the Secretary General’s call for a global ceasefire and the cessation of fighting to enable safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all communities in need of assistance. To resolve the crisis in Myanmar, the Government of Myanmar must take steps to address the root causes of the violence and displacement in Rakhine State and  create the conditions for voluntary, safe, dignified, and sustainable returns. This includes providing a pathway to citizenship and freedom of movement for Rohingya, guided by the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State’s recommendations and encouraged and supported by countries in the region. Myanmar must provide justice for the victims of human rights abuses and ensure that those responsible are held accountable.
We are grateful to the government and the people of Bangladesh and other countries in the region for their continued support and hosting of Rohingya refugees. We acknowledge the responsibility they have undertaken and we assure them of our continued donor commitment to support the humanitarian needs of Rohingya refugees throughout the region, especially in Bangladesh. This support needs to go hand-in-hand with increased support to host communities. While we continue efforts to secure long-term solutions, a focus on more sustainable response planning and financing in Bangladesh could more effectively support the government’s management of the response and maximize limited resources to benefit both Bangladeshi and refugee communities.
The crisis is having a devastating effect on vulnerable members of Rohingya communities, particularly women and children who require gender and age-sensitive interventions. The crisis is also affecting the wider region, with refugees, mainly women and children, desperately attempting to reach other countries in the region.  We greatly appreciate the efforts of those governments that have allowed the safe disembarkation of Rohingya refugees in distress at sea. We assure governments hosting Rohingya that donors are committed to supporting these refugees.
We will continue to provide strong support for displaced and stateless Rohingya people, wherever they are in Myanmar, Bangladesh, and other countries in the region. The international community has demonstrated its strong commitment to the humanitarian response with the announcement of funding today totaling some US $600 million, which significantly expands the nearly US $636 million in humanitarian assistance already committed so far in 2020 under the Bangladesh Joint Response Plan and the Myanmar Humanitarian Response Plan. Since the outbreak of violence in August 2017, a total of  nearly US $2.8 billion has been provided to the Rohingya crisis response in Myanmar, Bangladesh, and the region. This is in addition to USD 700 million in development commitments to Bangladesh from the World Bank and Asian Development Bank.
We remain steadfast in our engagement with countries concerned towards finding solutions to the crisis. We will continue to work together to maintain international attention on the Rohingya crisis and to shift from short-term critical interventions to a more sustained and stable support.
The co-hosts, the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), recognize the following countries and agencies for their participation in the conference:
Australia, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brunei, Canada, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Kuwait, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, the Philippines, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam; the Asian Development Bank (ADB); the Asia Pacific Refugee Rights Network (APRRN), BRAC, InterAction, the International Council of Voluntary Agencies (ICVA), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the International Organization for Migration (IOM), Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), the Steering Committee for Humanitarian Response (SCHR), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development Coordination Office (UNDCO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), UN-Habitat, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA), the World Food Programme (WFP), and the World Bank.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/97611-conference-sustaining-support-rohingya-refugee-response-22-october-2020




Date: 15 October 2020
Title: International donor conference to call for urgent humanitarian support for Rohingya refugees
Content: 15 October 2020
The United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees will bring the international community together this month to address the Rohingya crisis. At a virtual conference, they will urge countries to increase assistance for Rohingya refugees, host communities, and internally displaced people in Myanmar, more than three years since the latest phase of the crisis began in August 2017.
The UN has appealed for more than $1 billion in aid to meet the humanitarian needs of Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh this year, but so far less than half has been contributed. This leaves a significant funding gap, made worse by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The conference, which will take place on 22 October, aims to raise urgently needed funds to help vulnerable displaced Rohingya living in and outside of their native Myanmar. The funds raised are also expected to support critical services in host communities throughout South and Southeast Asia.
The conference will be an opportunity for the co-hosts to reiterate that any sustainable solution to this crisis must include the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees and other displaced people to their homes or to a place of their choosing. In this respect, the co-hosts will repeat the Secretary General’s call for a global ceasefire and the cessation of fighting to enable safe and unimpeded humanitarian access to all communities in need of assistance.
Stephen E. Biegun, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State, said:
“The United States is proud to stand with the UK, the EU, and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees as partners in leading this call to sustain the international crisis response to assist Rohingya refugees and other displaced people, as well as strengthen investment in affected host communities.  As the world’s most generous donor, we are a catalyst for the international humanitarian response and call on others to contribute to this cause – both longstanding partners as well as new and aspiring donors.”
The UK’s Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said:
“The Rohingya people have faced horrific brutality and were forced to flee their homes in the worst circumstances imaginable.  We have taken action against the architects of this systemic violence, including through sanctions and we will continue to hold those responsible to account.
“The UK has also been a leading donor since 2017 to alleviate humanitarian suffering of the Rohingya. The world must wake up to the severity of their plight and come together now to save lives.”
Janez Lenarčič, European Commissioner for Crisis Management, said:
“The Rohingya refugees have the continued full support from the EU at this critical time. Humanitarian partner organisations on the ground and host communities have responded with true solidarity to the plight of the Rohingya refugees. We are committed to step up our support to pledge further humanitarian, development and stabilisation assistance. The international community must strengthen its shared efforts towards reaching a sustainable solution – one that cultivates conditions for voluntary, safe and dignified return of Rohingya refugees.”
Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said:
“Solidarity with the Rohingya people means more than just meeting their basic needs. Refugees, like everyone else, have a right to a life of dignity and the chance to build a safe and stable future.”
Since the latest displacement of Rohingya during the exodus from Myanmar in August 2017, the overwhelming majority have been hosted in camps in Bangladesh. There are currently 860,000 Rohingya in camps in Cox’s Bazar, the world’s largest refugee settlement, while other countries in the region host up to an additional 150,000 Rohingya refugees.  An estimated 600,000 live in Myanmar’s Rakhine State.
Across South and Southeast Asia, many displaced Rohingya continue to live a life on the margins with no access to basic healthcare, clean drinking water, a reliable food supply, or meaningful work and educational opportunities. The COVID-19 pandemic has worsened living conditions, made access to services even more challenging, increased the risk of sexual and gender-based violence, and exacerbated the risk of infectious diseases for displaced Rohingya living in crowded camps, such as those in Cox’s Bazar and in Rakhine State.
Notes to editors
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/95982-international-donor-conference-call-urgent-humanitarian-support-rohingya-refugees




Date: 14 October 2020
Title: CTFMR expresses grave concern over circumstances of two children killed in fighting between the Tatmadaw and Arakan Army in Buthidaung, Rakhine State
Content: 14 October 2020
Statement from the Co-Chairs of the UN Country Taskforce on Monitoring and Reporting on Grave Violations against Children in Myanmar
YANGON – “On 5 October, two boys were killed in Buthidaung Township, Rakhine State, in crossfire between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army. This occurred after the children, as part of a group of 15 local farmers, were alleged to all have been forced to walk in front of a Tatmadaw unit to ensure the path towards a military camp was clear of landmines and to protect the soldiers from potential enemy fire. On the way, fighting broke out between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army, after which the two boys were found dead with gunshot wounds.
“We are saddened and shocked by this incident and our sincere condolences go to the families of the two boys.
“We are concerned that this reported incident occurred within the 12 months of the delisting of the Tatmadaw for underage recruitment and use in the UN Secretary-General’s Annual Report on Children and Armed Conflict (CAAC) of 2020, and in Buthidaung Township, which has been a hotspot for the use of children by the Tatmadaw for non-combat purposes since mid-2019 according to verified reports.  We call for a full, transparent, and expedited  investigation of the incident and for anyone responsible for the use and for the killing of the children to be held accountable.”
“The use of children for non-combat purposes by armed forces and groups should not be considered as a separate and lesser violation than the formal recruitment of children, and is criminalized in the Myanmar Child Rights Law. This egregious incident serves as a stark reminder that children are put at risk of being killed or injured whenever they are associated with armed forces and groups in any capacity or function, regardless of the duration of their association.”
“We are also deeply concerned about the alarming increase of reports of killings and injuries of children in Myanmar. More than 100 children were killed or maimed in conflict during the first three months of 2020, amounting to more than half of the total number in 2019, and significantly surpassing the total number of child casualties in 2018.”
“As Myanmar tackles the resurgence of COVID-19, we urge all parties to the conflict to intensify efforts to ensure children are protected from all grave violations, to ensure access to humanitarian assistance and services, and to exercise maximum restraint in the use of force where civilians are present.”
ABOUT THE UN COUNTRY TASKFORCE ON MONITORING AND REPORTING (CTFMR) ON GRAVE VIOLATIONS AGAINST CHILDREN
United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 1612 mandates the UN to establish UN-led CTFMRs in countries where there is verified evidence that Grave Violations against children are being committed by parties to a conflict, either by armed forces and/or by armed groups. The CTFMR is tasked with establishing a Monitoring and Reporting Mechanism (MRM) which documents, verifies and reports to the UNSC on Grave Violations against children.  The six Grave Violations that are monitored and reported are:
The CTFMR is also mandated to provide a coordinated response to such grave violations. The CTFMR was established in Myanmar in 2007 and is co-chaired by the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Ola Almgren, and the UNICEF Representative to Myanmar, June Kunugi. The CTFMR in Myanmar includes relevant UN agencies (the UN RCO, UNICEF, ILO, UNFPA, UNHCR, UN OCHA, and WFP), Save the Children and World Vision.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/95539-ctfmr-expresses-grave-concern-over-circumstances-two-children-killed-fighting-between




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: UN75: The Future We Want, The UN We Need
Content: 21 September 2020
In January 2020, the United Nations launched the global consultation to mark its 75th anniversary. Through
surveys and dialogues, it asked people about their hopes and fears for the future – representing the UN’s most
ambitious effort to date to understand expectations of international cooperation and of the UN in particular.
It is also the largest survey to date on priorities for recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic.
As of 21 September 2020, over a million people from all countries and all walks of life had taken part. Their
answers provide unique insights into what the public wants at this challenging time for the world. They are
released today to coincide with the UN General Assembly’s official commemoration of the 75th anniversary,
held under the banner: the future we want, the UN we need. Key findings include:
Priorities for action
Perceptions of the UN
“Across this anniversary year, we have engaged in a global conversation. And the results are striking.
People are thinking big – they are also expressing an intense yearning for international cooperation and global
solidarity. Now is the time to respond to these aspirations and realize these aims. In this 75th anniversary year,
we face our own 1945 moment. We must meet that moment. We must show unity like never before to
overcome today’s emergency, get the world moving and working and prospering again, and uphold the vision
of the Charter.” - United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres
Full report and press kit: https://www.un.org/un75/presskit
Join the conversation: www.un75.online
Background
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/91781-un75-future-we-want-un-we-need




Date: 16 September 2020
Title: Myanmar joins the world’s biggest conversation
Content: 16 September 2020
YANGON: Senior diplomats and foreign affairs experts in Myanmar have suggested the United Nations needs to reform to respond to new global challenges like climate change and disease outbreaks.
Celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the UN in 1945 after World War Two, the diplomats came together on a special program hosted by Skynet One News. The program was carried on Facebook Live on the UN Myanmar Facebook page, and will be re-broadcast this Sunday at the Weekends with Susu Thatun show on the Skynet One News Channel.
The UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres says he wants “the world’s biggest conversation” to help shape the future of the UN and the UN in Myanmar brought together the panel to discuss the future of multilateralism. Dozens of people in the Facebook Live audience asked questions.
The eminent former Myanmar diplomat, U Khin Maung Lynn, who is Joint Secretary of the Myanmar Institute of Strategic and International Studies (MISIS) said Myanmar had enjoyed very good relations with the UN and added the UN must adjust to the new world.
"It has saved lives," he said. "It has helped Myanmar to halve child mortality and increased nutrition among school children through food programs.
"Can the UN adapt to the world we know today?
"It needs self examination and must reflect on the world we have today.
"Myanmar can better contribute to UN agencies and help the world reach the Sustainable Development Goals."
The Thai Ambassador to Myanmar Ms. Suphatra Srimaitreephitak said the UN must be productive, relevant and meaningful to all stakeholders.
The French Ambassador to Myanmar Mr. Christian Lechervy discussed the important role the UN has played over 75 years.
"The UN is the best instrument we have for peace."
“Global, regional and sub-regional co-operation is how we deal with the world of tomorrow.
“The number of conflicts has diminished in the past 30 years as a result of UN actions and collective actions.
“It protects and promotes human rights through more than 80 treaties.
“It also defines the world’s environment agenda.”.
Historian and foreign affairs expert, Dr Thant Myint-U, who worked on reform at the UN, said the organisation was often left to deal with problems which were "intractable or very difficult" which other bodies could not solve.
He called for bureaucratic restructuring. "We have to move away from a system where the member states put their own people into the UN bureaucracy. It hollows out the bureaucracy of the UN and affects staff morale. The UN needs the very best people available. "
Sandii Lwin founder and Managing Director of Myanmar Health and Development Consortium and a development expert, pointed out the UN was well placed to respond to COVID-19 through inclusive dialogue.
"The UN creates a climate of collaboration, which will be especially important when the vaccine for COVID-19 is ready."
The program was led by Dr. Susu Thatun, host of the first bilingual television talk show on One News, featuring views and discussions around issues of interest in Myanmar within a larger regional and international context.
Formerly, a senior advisor to the UN Resident Coordinator in Myanmar, she took questions from the online Facebook audience.
U Khin Maung Lynn told the viewers that Myanmar is moving back to the international community through democratic traditions.
"But our friends must understand this requires patience and tolerance and the international community, including the UN, must understand our history. It should undertake more staff training and invest more in knowledge.
"It is a pity we haven't achieved peace in 70 years, it will take more time and understanding."
The UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Ola Almgren, thanked the panel for helping the UN with the conversation about its future.
"Some UN reform has been successful, some less so," Mr Almgren said. “Collective action has been successful.
"It is the only place the world can discuss its difficulties and seek shared solutions.
More than three generations have gone by since the United Nations was formed on the back of two world wars, and many who live today may think of the organization as something of the past.
“And yet, I would argue that the three main pillars that make up the foundation of the United Nations: faith in fundamental human rights; respect for justice and the obligations arising from treaties and international law; and promotion of social progress, remain as valid as they have ever been.
“They are a collective framework needed to address the challenges of today’s world, whether related to persisting inequalities and the hundreds of millions who still live in extreme poverty, continued conflict that brings misery to millions around the world, or the fact that our planet is dying if we don’t act quickly to save it.
“The global crisis brought by the Covid-19 pandemic is just an additional illustration of how global challenges need global solutions and an organization which brings nations together around these.
"Throughout my career with the United Nations, I have met many people who have been appreciative of our work but also those who have been highly critical and I accept both.  Given the challenges of today’s world, we can and must do better which is why we are seeking a global conversation on the UN we need to guide us and our Member States as we move forward."
Mr Almgren encouraged people to show what they think is important for the UN's future and fill out the international survey which is available online in English and in Burmese.
"We are listening," Mr. Almgren said.
ends
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/91249-myanmar-joins-world%E2%80%99s-biggest-conversation




Date: 15 September 2020
Title: WFP supports Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement and Rakhine State Government to provide meals at quarantine centres in Rakhine State
Content: 15 September 2020
Sittwe, Myanmar – In support of the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement (MoSWRR), the Rakhine State Government and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) have signed an agreement for the provision of short-term food assistance at quarantine centers across Rakhine State. Under the agreement, which was signed in the first week of September, people undergoing mandatory quarantine at eight townships in Rakhine State will receive three nutritious meals a day, funded by WFP, throughout the quarantine period.
Since mid- August 2020, Rakhine State has seen an increase in local transmission of COVID-19, concentrated around the state capital Sittwe. In addition to a series of immediate prevention and control measures, the Government of Myanmar is contact tracing and preparing quarantine facilities to contain the spread of the virus. As of 10 September 2020, about 1,500 people are under quarantine at government-managed centers across the state.
“MoSWRR is always trying to provide necessary assistance to people affected by disasters, both man-made and natural, and the vulnerable groups of people, with the principle of ‘No one is left behind’. Since the locally transmitted case was reported on 16 August, our ministry is continuously in touch with the Rakhine State Government as well as with national and international humanitarian partners to assess humanitarian needs and facilitate to provide necessary assistance. As the number of cases has increased in recent days, MoSWRR, the Rakhine State Government and the WFP hold talks to provide food assistance in Rakhine State. We would like to appreciate WFP’s cooperation and readiness to support
Myanmar, as it has signed an agreement with the Rakhine State Government to support food assistance at the facility based quarantine centers in Rakhine State,” HE Dr. Win Myat Aye , Union Minister of MoSWRR, said.
During the month of September, the State Government and WFP will work together to provide food support at quarantine centres in Ann, Kyauk Phyu, Kyauk Taw, Minbya, Mrauk U, Myebon, Pauk Taw and Sittwe townships. The parties will jointly monitor the evolution of the COVID-19 situation and progress of assistance, and decide on future support accordingly.
“As a United Nations agency assisting the people of Rakhine since 1994, WFP is proud to be partnering with the Ministry of Social Welfare Relief and Resettlement and the Rakhine State Government in ramping up our food assistance to complement the Government’s ongoing COVID-19 response,” Stephen Anderson, WFP’s Country Director in Myanmar, said. “We stand ready to expand our support, if necessary, to Government efforts as it deals with food and nutrition needs of people in Rakhine and elsewhere in Myanmar.”
With the support of MoSWRR, WFP’s food distributions are reaching up to 200,000 conflict-affected and other vulnerable populations in central Rakhine and 100,000 people in northern Rakhine each month. WFP has also supported the Government’s COVID-19 response through the provision of personal protective equipment, sanitizers and infrared digital thermometers in places where it operates, including Rakhine state. Through its ongoing support to returning migrants in quarantine sites, WFP provided food assistance to over 60,000 people in 10 out of 14 states and regions in Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/90953-wfp-supports-ministry-social-welfare-relief-and-resettlement-and-rakhine-state-government




Date: 08 September 2020
Title: Statement on the Impact of Conflict in Western Myanmar
Content: 08 September 2020
The United Nations is deeply concerned by the continuing humanitarian impact of conflict in western Myanmar, most recently in light of clashes between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army on 3 September leading to serious damage in the villages of Hpa Yar Phaung and Taung Pauk where many homes were burned and civilians forced to flee.
“We are following the recent escalation of hostilities in Rakhine State with concern” said the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator, Mr. Ola Almgren.  “The United Nations urges the parties to respect international humanitarian law and protect civilians, to allow humanitarian access to the areas affected, and to heed the Secretary-General’s call for a global cease-fire in order to enable efforts to prevent and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic” said Mr. Almgren.
The pre-existing humanitarian challenges in Rakhine State have been exacerbated by the recent and ongoing surge in locally transmitted COVID-19 cases.  The United Nations reiterates its full commitment to continue working with and supporting the Government of Myanmar in addressing these challenges and to provide support to the COVID-19 response.
End
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/89814-statement-impact-conflict-western-myanmar




Date: 01 September 2020
Title: Countries in Asia-Pacific convene virtual UN FAO conference to plan responses and recovery work on twin pandemics of COVID-19 and hunger
Content: 01 September 2020
The Asia-Pacific region is home to more than half of the world’s undernourished, and with COVID-19 the number of hungry people in Southern Asia is projected to rise by nearly a third to 330 million by 2030, the Sustainable Development Goal deadline set by the global community to eliminate hunger and malnutrition in all its forms.
In response, Government representatives from 46 FAO Member Nations in Asia and the Pacific have convened a four-day virtual conference to closely examine the present situation of the region’s food security, with a particular emphasis on implications linked to the spread of the coronavirus and its impact on food systems region-wide.
More than 400 delegates are participating in a virtual meeting of the 35th Session of the FAO Asia and Pacific Regional Conference (#APRC35), hosted by the Royal Government of Bhutan. Their numbers include Government Ministers, private sector, civil society, academia and technical experts in the food and agriculture sectors. All sessions of the conference can be followed live via Webcast. The Timetable can be found here and the Annotated Agenda is here.
Twin pandemics require new thinking and actions
From Afghanistan and Iran in the west, across populous South and East Asia, and far out into the Pacific Islands, new ways and approaches will be needed to battle back from these twin pandemics. Climate change is another aggravating factor menacing efforts to increase resilience across our food systems.
“We must come to terms with what is before us and recognize that the world and our region has changed. We must find new ways to move forward and ensure sustainable food security in the face of these twin pandemics, as well as prepare for threats that can and will evolve in the future,” said Jong-Jin Kim, Assistant Director-General and FAO Regional Representative for Asia and the Pacific. “This virtual conference brings together the people and ideas to chart a true course of action for the benefit of all.”
The conference will highlight FAO’s recently launched comprehensive COVID-19 Response and Recovery Programme designed to provide a flexible and coordinated global response that aims to ensure access to nutritious food for everyone. The programme includes the mobilization of all forms of resources and partnerships at country, regional and global level. The main aim is to mitigate the immediate impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic while strengthening the longer-term resilience of food systems and livelihoods.
The conference will also consider new marketing channels (such as e-commerce) and new technologies (including better storage facilities) that will help reduce food losses, as these are critical to ensure the flow of nutritious foods and to generate improved incomes for those who work across the entire food and agriculture sectors.
Equally critical is enabling smallholder and family farmers – those who produce most of the food we consume – to become more dynamic, entrepreneurial and competitive through continual innovation. Smallholders will need much greater access to financial resources, technology and innovation.
Bringing all players together will be crucial to realizing these gains and FAO is in the process of implementing the Hand-in-Hand Initiative to enable that. The conference will have a special session to examine the progress made in the region through this initiative.
The conference (#APRC35) will continue until Friday 4 September.
http://www.fao.org/asiapacific/news/detail-events/en/c/1305669/
Follow us on Twitter @FAOAsiaPacific   #APRC35
Related links:
FAO Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
http://www.fao.org/asiapacific
Journalists & editors:
For global media enquiries, contact: (+39) 06 570 53625 or FAO-newsroom@fao.org.

Online tools:
			Photos via the FAOnews Flickr account
			FAO's online newsroom
RSS feed of FAO news releases
@FAOnews on Twitter
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/89185-countries-asia-pacific-convene-virtual-un-fao-conference-plan-responses-and-recovery-work




Date: 01 September 2020
Title: United Nations expresses firm commitment to support COVID-19 response efforts in Rakhine State
Content: 01 September 2020
The United Nations and its partners have stood firmly with the Government of Myanmar in its preparedness and response efforts since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic early in 2020. This has involved support of the Government’s humanitarian, public health and socio-economic response. Efforts have involved technical and capacity building support, including delivery of 95,000 test kits to scale-up testing capacities, provision of personal protective equipment (PPE), support to migrant workers returning from abroad and socio-economic and livelihoods support. In parallel, the United Nations and international organizations have worked to ensure the continued delivery of its regular humanitarian response and development programmes.
With the recent surge of cases in Rakhine State, the United Nations and its partners have further scaled up their support to the Government at Union and State levels. The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) provided an additional COVID-19 testing machine to Sittwe General Hospital, while World Health Organization (WHO) technicians helped install the machine and trained hospital staff in how to use it.
Furthermore, the United Nations funds, programmes and agencies, together with partner international non-governmental organizations, have delivered thousands of sets of PPE, coveralls and medical and hygiene supplies to frontline health and aid workers in Rakhine as well as N95 and surgical masks, various types of sanitizers and infrared digital thermometers. The United Nations has also provided funds for Sittwe General Hospital, where most of the recently confirmed cases are being treated, which have been used to support the provision of ventilators, oxygen concentrators, and other critical equipment and supplies.
“The United Nations follows the recent increase in COVID-19 cases in Rakhine State with concern and congratulates the Government of Myanmar for its rapid response. The intensified testing and tracing of contacts that are underway are essential to stemming the rise in cases” said the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Mr. Ola Almgren.
“The recent surge in COVID-19 cases in Rakhine complicates the provision of ongoing humanitarian assistance and protection services to more than 670,000 vulnerable people by the UN and its partners” said Mr. Almgren. “We are working with the Government to ensure that measures aiming to reduce the speed of local transmission in Rakhine take account of and don’t inadvertently impede the humanitarian efforts on which many people in Rakhine depend”, stressed the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator.
Access to timely and accurate information about the risks of COVID-19 as well as preventive measures is essential to ensuring people’s safety. “Nowadays, the general population actively seek this information on mobile internet,” said Mr. Almgren. “Therefore, access to functional internet that allows applications to run on mobile phones is essential and full internet service must be restored in areas currently not having such service”.
Access to communities in need in northern Rakhine and southern Chin state has also been curtailed due to the ongoing armed conflict in this area. The United Nations reiterates its call on the parties to the conflict to heed the Secretary General’s call for a global ceasefire, which was echoed by the Security Council through adoption of the Resolution 2532 on 1 July 2020, and cease hostilities to enable safe and unimpeded access to all communities in need of assistance.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/89177-united-nations-expresses-firm-commitment-support-covid-19-response-efforts-rakhine-state




Date: 26 August 2020
Title: Statement on the COVID-19 outbreak in Rakhine State
Content: 26 August 2020
Since the outbreak of COVID-19 in late March in Myanmar, the Ministry of Health and Sports has confirmed 96 cases in Rakhine State, 80 of which between 16 and 25 August 2020, with 82 cases that have been transmitted locally.
The United Nations and its humanitarian partners have carried out COVID-19 preparedness activities in camps and sites for internally displaced people in Rakhine State and elsewhere, raising awareness about the risks posed by the virus and promoting preventive measures and distributing essential hygiene and personal protective equipment.
With the support of donors and in collaboration with the Government, the United Nations, and national and international humanitarian organizations have also ensured the continuation of life-saving assistance to people in need, including the provision of water and sanitation, shelter and other basic non-food items, food and nutrition support, access to education, healthcare and protection services for close to 670,000 people across Rakhine.
Among those who have recently been confirmed COVID-19-positive in Rakhine, personnel of United Nations agencies, funds and programmes and of international non-governmental organizations have also tested positive and are currently under hospital treatment. Primary and secondary contacts are under quarantine, as per the regulations put in place by the Union Government and the Rakhine State authorities.
All United Nations, and national and international organizations’ humanitarian and COVID-19 risk communication and preparedness activities in Rakhine and elsewhere have been and continue to be carried out in compliance with Government and WHO COVID-19 prevention measures, including by ensuring physical distancing, personal hygiene and protection.
The United Nations and its partners express their solidarity with the people of Rakhine, and everyone affected by COVID-19, a common enemy that does not distinguish between ethnicity or religion.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/88508-statement-covid-19-outbreak-rakhine-state




Date: 25 August 2020
Title: As election looms, Myanmar has opportunity to take new path, says UN Human Rights Office official
Content: 25 August 2020
BANGKOK – The UN Human Rights Office for South-East Asia urged the Myanmar Government to embrace the opportunity of a looming national election to take a new and fully inclusive democratic path, and to address the root causes of violations and abuses suffered by ethnic minorities.
On 25 August 2017, Myanmar’s military launched a wave of brutal “clearance operations” against ethnic Rohingya in Rakhine state that resulted in mass killings, rape, burned homes and mass displacement. Meanwhile, a new conflict has flared between security forces and the Arakan Army (AA), which has negatively impacted civilians throughout central and northern Rakhine State, including the Rohingya.
“Three years after the outbreak of violence that forced more than 720,000 ethnic Rohingya into neighbouring Bangladesh, conditions inside the country have deteriorated and little has been done to create viable conditions for their safe return,” said James Rodehaver, a senior official with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights in Bangkok.
National elections scheduled for November provide Myanmar the opportunity to restore political rights to the Rohingya, who were able to participate in all votes until 2010. However, they were excluded from the 2015 ballot, and at least four Rohingya politicians who sought to stand in the upcoming vote have had their applications rejected. This continuing process of disenfranchisement effectively prevents Rohingya from enjoying their fundamental rights.
“It is crucial if the vote in November is to be inclusive, free and fair that Myanmar respect the right of all its people to participate fully and equally in the electoral processes and in all aspects of public life. The Government should take immediate steps to ensure that the Rohingya can meaningfully participate in the forthcoming election, both as candidates and as voters,” said Rodehaver.
While the Government has focused its attention more on fighting the global COVID-19 pandemic than prosecuting local conflicts in recent months, it has repeatedly rejected calls for a ceasefire in Rakhine State and it failed to invite the AA to peace negotiations this past weekend.
In January, the International Court of Justice ordered Myanmar’s Government to take “all necessary measures” to prevent the killing of Rohingya. Yet, the conflict has since resulted in 144 civilian deaths and 399 injuries, including 25 Rohingya dead and 46 wounded.
Furthermore, the Government has bulldozed or burned several remaining Rohingya villages, it has failed to implement transparent and fully independent accountability measures for serious human rights violations and possible international crimes, and it has further marginalized the Rohingya community.
Witnesses from Rakhine have also reported that the ongoing conflict has led to the displacement of thousands of local residents, serious constraints on humanitarian access and freedom of movement, and severe limitations on internet services and freedom of expression.
“Myanmar must demonstrate its real commitment to the process of returns for displaced Rohingya and take necessary measures to address the root causes that led to the crisis, including amending the 1982 Citizenship Law to restore their nationality and ensuring accountability for crimes committed against them,” Rodehaver said.
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/88484-election-looms-myanmar-has-opportunity-take-new-path-says-un-human-rights-office-official




Date: 19 August 2020
Title: Statement on the occasion of World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2020
This year, COVID-19 has been one of the biggest challenges to humanitarian operations in Myanmar and around the world. Civil society organizations and community volunteers – the local humanitarian heroes we are now celebrating – are at the forefront of the humanitarian response, even more so than usual due to the preventive measures put in place to contain the spread of the virus, which limited national and international travel.
While working hard with the Government and relevant actors to scale-up COVID-19 preparedness and response, the United Nations and its national and international partners were able to pursue critical life-saving humanitarian operations to address the needs of the most vulnerable men, women and children.
This was possible only thanks to the immense efforts and commitment of frontline responders, members within the affected communities, the men and women working for national and international non-governmental organizations, the Red Cross movement and the United Nations. They are making a unique contribution. Today and every day, we salute them for their efforts and say “thank you”.
They often put their own lives at risk to provide essential support to people in need. The United Nations, therefore, reminds all parties to conflict of their obligations under international humanitarian law to protect civilians and humanitarian and medical workers and to facilitate the safe provision of relief to all people in need.
The United Nations also wishes to express its appreciation to the donors who have maintained and even scaled-up their support in these challenging times, while facing themselves the impact of the pandemic.
The United Nations and its partners will continue to work with the Government of Myanmar to respond to the needs of close to one million people in need of assistance this year.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/87860-statement-occasion-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 12 August 2020
Title: UNHCR donates medical supplies to support national COVID-19 response
Content: 12 August 2020
NAY PYI TAW – UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, has donated medical supplies containing medicines, equipment and personal protective equipment (PPE) to counterpart ministries in support of Myanmar’s response to the COVID-19 global pandemic. The handover ceremony of the essential items took place in Nay Pyi Taw attended by the UNHCR Representative a.i. and senior officials from the Government of Myanmar.
In total, UNHCR is donating US $2.4 million worth of medical supplies to the Ministry of Health and Sports, Ministry of Labour and Immigration and Population, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement.
The medical supplies are aimed at reinforcing the national health response with four WHO-designed COVID-19 commodity packages which comprise of 75 items including 20 ultrasound scanners, 18 ventilators, 720 thermometers, and various medicines. To further support case management, the donation also includes disinfectants, supplies to manage medical waste, and laboratory supplies. In addition, protective equipment aimed at keeping frontline health care workers safe was also handed over including 238,600 pairs of examination and surgical gloves, 170,000 surgical masks, 160,000 N95 masks, 34,000 face shields, 23,000 disposable gowns and 9,600 safety goggles and glasses.
“Together with our partners, UNHCR is committed to support all communities to slow and stop the spread of the virus and ensure the most vulnerable are included in the public health response. The donation of medical items today is a further demonstration of UNHCR’s dedication to bolster the national response to COVID-19. We also extend our gratitude to healthcare workers across the country, and we are pleased to help ensure they are protected while they provide care for patients in need,” said Cecile Fradot, UNHCR Representative a.i. to Myanmar.
Since the outbreak, UNHCR has increased prevention and response activities in displacement sites in Kachin, northern Shan and Rakhine states as well as in the South East region, including running awareness campaigns with key messages on prevention, and scaled up health, water, sanitation and hygiene services in camps as well as busy market areas with new sinks, soaps and hand sanitizer. UNHCR has also extended support to State Health Departments and local authorities across the country to equip over 350 quarantine facilities with essential items such as beds, blankets, hygiene kits to help to make the temporary stay at these facilities more comfortable, and safer for everyone. Today’s donation comes on top of a handover of 10,000 COVID-19 testing kits to the Ministry of Health and Sports on 25 July.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/87115-unhcr-donates-medical-supplies-support-national-covid-19-response




Date: 06 August 2020
Title: The first Convention has achieved universal ratification in the history of the ILO
Content: 06 August 2020
The C 182 is the most rapidly ratified Convention in the history of the Organization, since its adoption 21 years ago by the International Labour Conference.
“The C182 on the Worst Forms of Child Labour provides critical legal protections to all children against the worst forms of child labour including slavery and debt bondage; trafficking of children; children forced to participate in armed conflict; used for commercial sexual exploitation or in illicit activities; or subjected to hazardous work. It reflects a global commitment that the worst forms of child labour have no place in our society.” said ILO Liaison Officer/Representative Mr. Donglin LI.
Child labour perpetuates poverty across generations, interrupts education, lowering workforce productivity and condemning affected children to a lifetime of poorly paid, unstable employment, usually in the informal economy.
There are still 152 million children in child labour, 73 million of whom are in hazardous work. 71 percent of child labour is in agriculture, and two-thirds of it is unpaid family work. The incidence of child labour and its worst forms dropped by almost 40 per cent between 2000 and 2016, as ratification rates of ILO C182 and C138 on minimum age to work increased, and countries adopted effective laws and policies.
Myanmar ratified the ILO C182 on the worst forms of child labour in 2013 and the ILO C138 on minimum age to work in 2020. It has made remarkable progress in addressing the child labour issues. However, the fight against child labour is not won yet and much work remains to be done. The COVID-19 pandemic threatens to reverse years of progress.
Ending child labour by 2025 in all its forms is included under Target 8.7 of the Sustainable Development Goals, adopted by all UN Member States in 2015. The universal ratification of C182 demonstrates the will of all ILO member States to ensure that every child, everywhere, is free from child labour and its worst forms.
Mr. LI stated “with the universal ratification of Convention 182, and with the determination to build back better from the current C-19 crisis, we have an opportunity to work together with all stakeholders to deliver on the promise of C182 and put an end to child labour in all its forms in Myanmar”.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/86381-first-convention-has-achieved-universal-ratification-history-ilo




Date: 30 July 2020
Title: UNHCR and WFP team up to deliver 20,000 COVID-19 Test Kits to Myanmar
Content: 30 July 2020
YANGON, Myanmar – UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and the World Food Programme (WFP) have teamed up to deliver 20,000 COVID-19 test kits to the Government of Myanmar. The test kits, which were procured and delivered by UNICEF, arrived at the Yangon International Airport today as part of a broader United Nations provision of over 95,000 test kits to the Myanmar Ministry of Health and Sports.
The United Nations family stands in full solidarity with the Government of Myanmar in its response to COVID-19 and is actively supporting its efforts to save lives, and strengthen the national response capacity to help contain the spread of the virus, including with COVID test kits, as well as leveraging WFP’s humanitarian logistics system to facilitate the arrival of much needed relief, hygiene and medical supplies to Myanmar.
“The global pandemic has impacted everyone and placed vulnerable communities at heightened risks. Continued vigilance is still required, including wearing masks, physical distancing and maintaining hygiene practices,” said Ms. Cecile Fradot, Representative ad interim for UNHCR in Myanmar. “The delivery of the test kits today is critical to support the Government of Myanmar to cut the chains of transmission of the virus and protect all communities, including those displaced by conflict.”
According to WFP Myanmar’s Country Director Mr. Stephen Anderson, “These kits are intended to further boost and sustain the Government of Myanmar’s efforts to avert a second wave of COVID transmissions which is fundamental to keeping poverty and hunger in check”.
This latest contribution to the Government of Myanmar builds on collective UN efforts to support the national testing strategy, with 75,000 test kits handed over by the World Health Organisation, UNICEF, and UNOPS through its Access to Health Fund, to the Ministry of Health and Sports and its relevant laboratory facilities to date.
This year, UNHCR rolled out a US $9.4m programme aimed at ensuring the inclusion of persons of concern, including stateless and displaced people, in the national COVID-19 response. At the same time, WFP has so far provided daily meals for over 50,000 returning migrants at Myanmar border gates and government-managed quarantine centers, while WFP weekly aid flights continue to bring into the country essential supplies and passengers urgently needed in the fight against COVID-19.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/78410-unhcr-and-wfp-team-deliver-20000-covid-19-test-kits-myanmar




Date: 30 July 2020
Title: Myanmar Mechanism launches website in English and Myanmar languages
Content: 30 July 2020
The website, in the English and Myanmar languages, will serve as one of the main platforms in the Mechanism’s effort to provide accurate and timely information about its mandate and work to various audiences in Myanmar and internationally.
In addition to information on the Mechanism’s Terms of Reference and process, the website will include in-depth features on thematic issues related to the Mechanism’s mandate. The Mechanism will regularly update its website with news on its activities, including its annual report to the Human Rights Council and the General Assembly, official missions and participation in events.
The website launch is part of the Mechanism’s broader public outreach effort which follows the Mechanism’s earlier outreach initiatives. In early 2020, it also conducted a civil society survey to understand the knowledge and perspectives of key Myanmar civil society actors and a small number of international experts, and to facilitate initial institutional engagement with victim groups, advocates for accountability and their allies. In October 2019, the Mechanism published its Fact Sheet, which addressed frequently asked questions from interested stakeholders. In May 2020, it released its inaugural Bulletin, a publication which will be issued regularly to highlight initiatives and provide updates on the progress of its work.
The Mechanism believes that the website will facilitate awareness raising and understanding of its mandate and work and foster dialogue with relevant stakeholders. By strengthening its engagement with Member States, civil society groups and other organizations, the Mechanism hopes to encourage them to contribute to its mission of delivering justice to the people of Myanmar.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/86143-myanmar-mechanism-launches-website-english-and-myanmar-languages




Date: 25 July 2020
Title: COVID-19: Major flexible funding from GAVI proved crucial for Myanmar’s effective response
Content: 25 July 2020
YANGON – During the onset of the pandemic, the emergency re-allocation of US$8.8 million from the over US$85 million Health System Strengthening (HSS-2) Gavi-funded programme was crucial to Myanmar’s effective response to COVID-19 and the quick resumption of life-saving services by the Ministry of Health and Sports, supported by UNICEF and WHO and other partners.
“With the re-allocation of the funds from Gavi, the Ministry of Health and Sports strengthened community engagement and risk communications, and infection prevention and control and  case management, as well as implemented enhanced disease surveillance and preventive measures, laboratory readiness and coordination,” said Dr. Myint Htwe, Union Minster of the Ministry of Health and Sports.
UNICEF and WHO supported the Government of Myanmar with the procurement of 20,000 Cobas 6800 testing kits, 30,000-each specimen carriers and universal transport media, 370 Oxygen Concentrators, laboratory reagents, US$3.75 million worth of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, and dissemination of communication materials in Myanmar and 85 ethnic languages, as well as capacity building of health workers.
“Gavi was the first to offer the re-allocation of funds for prevention, control and containment of COVID-19 response. We appreciate Gavi’s quick response to the situation in allowing for the reallocation of the HSS-2 grant for the prevention and control of the COVID-19 outbreak in Myanmar,” said Dr Stephan Jost, WHO Representative to Myanmar.
The support from Gavi was also key in the resumption of routine immunisation services after only six weeks of suspension. Taking necessary infection prevention measures, physical distancing and hand hygiene practices, national routine immunisation re-started in hospitals in all 330 townships and in 98 large hospitals from 18 May 2020 and expanded to nationwide outreach services in June. Despite restriction measures and apprehension in the community, more than 110,000 children came forward to take their third dose of pentavalent vaccine in the month of June. This is about one-and-half times more children who took the vaccine in the same period last year.
Prior to COVID-19, Gavi has supported key immunisation programmes in Myanmar including:
“Gavi congratulates the Ministry of Health and Sports for the effective response to the COVID-19 pandemic and we are glad that we could contribute to the national response plan with our funding. We are particularly impressed with the resumption of routine immunisation in June and the promising catch-up of missed children and coverage rates across the country,” said Pascal Bijleveld, Director, Country Support, Gavi. Gavi has been supporting Myanmar since 2002 and as of December 2019 it has provided a cumulative total amount of US$216 million for various programmes.
“As we continue our programmes and activities through ‘COVID-safe’ engagement modalities, we look forward to our continued and collective partnership, with special thanks to Gavi and all of its donors, so that we may continue to respond to the threats and risks posed by the pandemic while restoring and expanding services to reach all children and communities in Myanmar,” said June Kunugi, UNICEF Representative to Myanmar.
“Together, we can re-imagine a better future for children and their families in Myanmar.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/54323-covid-19-major-flexible-funding-gavi-proved-crucial-myanmar%E2%80%99s-effective-response




Date: 21 July 2020
Title: Statement on the passing away of UNFPA staff member Daniel Msonda
Content: 21 July 2020
It is with deep sadness that we announce the unfortunate demise of Mr. Daniel Msonda, UNFPA staff in Myanmar, on 18 July 2020, in Nay Pyi Taw.
Mr. Msonda, a Malawian national, first came to Myanmar as UNFPA staff in 2013. A distinguished demographic expert, he played a lead role in advising the Government of Myanmar on Census and population level data collection, analysis and use. A soft-spoken individual, Dan was well regarded within the UN and international community, and among national counterparts who will all miss his friendly approach and calming influence.
As a mark of respect to our departed colleague, the UN flag to be flown at half-mast from 19 to 21 July.
Our thoughts and prayers are with Dan’s family, friends and colleagues at this moment.  May he rest in peace.
United Nations in Myanmar
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/53721-statement-passing-away-unfpa-staff-member-daniel-msonda




Date: 21 July 2020
Title: Fresh WFP emergency assistance arrives at conflict-affected Paletwa Town, Chin State
Content: 21 July 2020
Paletwa, MYANMAR – This week the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has commenced distribution of a newly-arrived tranche of 165 tons of emergency food and nutrition assistance for communities affected by conflict in Paletwa Town in remote southern Chin State, which has been largely cut off from regular trade and supply routes for many months.
“Thanks to the excellent support and coordination from Chin State and authorities at all levels, we have successfully reached Paletwa once again in spite of security risks and poor road conditions,” said Stephen Anderson, WFP’s Country Director in Myanmar. “It is imperative for humanitarian assistance like this be sustained while the communities in Paletwa continue to cope with the disruption of markets and loss of livelihoods.”
Following an earlier WFP delivery to Paletwa in May, the newly-arrived food assistance, consisting of rice, pulses, oil, salt and fortified blended food, will be distributed to over 4,000 people and will cover their daily food and nutrition needs for approximately two months. Children, pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers will also benefit from nutrition-rich food supplements.
In June, WFP was also able to preposition four months of food supplies for internally-displaced people in nearby Samee Town, Chin State.
#                                  #                                  #
The United Nations World Food Programme - saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development. WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/53825-fresh-wfp-emergency-assistance-arrives-conflict-affected-paletwa-town-chin-state




Date: 02 July 2020
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesman for the Secretary-General - on the landslide in Hpakant, Myanmar
Content: 02 July 2020
The Secretary-General is deeply saddened by the reported death of at least 123 people following a large landslide today in the town of Hpakant, Kachin State, Myanmar.
The Secretary-General expresses his deep condolences to the families of the victims and to the people and Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar. He reiterates the readiness of the United Nations to contribute to ongoing efforts to address the needs of the affected population.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/51789-statement-attributable-spokesman-secretary-general-landslide-hpakant-myanmar




Date: 02 July 2020
Title: Expression of Condolences by the United Nations in Myanmar Following Tragic Landslide in Hpakant, Kachin State
Content: 02 July 2020
The United Nations in Myanmar, is deeply saddened by the loss of life due to a massive landslide at a mining site in Hpakant Township in Kachin State on the morning of 2nd of July 2020.
The United Nations in Myanmar commends the courageous efforts by the men and women involved in the difficult rescue and recovery efforts and extends its sincere condolences to the families of the victims and wishes the injured a speedy recovery.
Yangon
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/51771-expression-condolences-united-nations-myanmar-following-tragic-landslide-hpakant-kachin-state




Date: 30 June 2020
Title: Confronting the silent and endemic crisis of harmful practices
Content: 30 June 2020
NEW YORK –  Every year, millions of girls are subjected to practices that harm them physically and emotionally, with the full knowledge and consent of their families, friends and communities, according to the State of World Population 2020, released today by UNFPA, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency.
At least 19 harmful practices, ranging from breast ironing to virginity testing, are considered human rights violations, according to the UNFPA report, which focuses on the three most prevalent ones: female genital mutilation, child marriage, and extreme bias against daughters in favour of sons.
Harmful practices against girls cause profound and lasting trauma, robbing them of their right to reach their full potential,” says UNFPA Executive Director Dr. Natalia Kanem.
This year, an estimated 4.1 million girls will be subjected to female genital mutilation. Today, 33,000 girls under age 18 will be forced into marriages, usually to much older men. Also, an extreme preference for sons over daughters in some countries has fueled gender-biased sex selection or extreme neglect that leads to their death as children, resulting in 140 million “missing females.”
Some harmful practices are waning in countries where they have been most prevalent. But because of population growth in these countries, the number of girls subjected to them will actually rise in the coming decades, if urgent action is not taken.
Countries that have ratified international treaties such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child have a duty to end the harm, whether it’s inflicted on girls by family members, religious communities, health-care providers, commercial enterprises or state institutions. Many have responded with laws, but laws alone are not enough.
Decades of experience and research show that bottom-up, grassroots approaches are better at bringing change, the UNFPA report states. “We must tackle the problem by tackling the root causes, especially gender-biased norms. We must do a better job of supporting communities’ own efforts to understand the toll these practices are taking on girls and the benefits that accrue to the whole of society by stopping them,” Dr. Kanem says.
Economies and the legal systems that support them must be restructured to guarantee every woman equal opportunities, the report adds. Changing rules for property inheritance, for example, can eliminate a powerful incentive for families to favour sons over daughters and help to eliminate child marriage.
Ending child marriage and female genital mutilation worldwide is possible within 10 years by scaling up efforts to keep girls in school longer and teach them life skills and to engage men and boys in social change. Investments totaling $3.4 billion a year through 2020 would end these two harmful practices and end the suffering of an estimated 84 million girls, the report shows.
While progress has been made in ending some harmful practices worldwide, the COVID-19 pandemic threatens to reverse gains. A recent analysis revealed that if services and programmes remain shuttered for six months, an additional 13 million girls may be forced into marriage and 2 million more girls may be subjected to female genital mutilation between now and 2030.
“The pandemic both makes our job harder and more urgent as so many more girls are now at risk,” Dr. Kanem says. “We will not stop until the rights, choices and bodies of all girls are fully their own.”
In the context of Myanmar, a country that has affirmed and ratified the CEDAW, gender equality and empowerment of women and girls remain an unfulfilled promise. Only half of the eligible women are participating in the workforce, even though women in the country are as qualified as their male counterparts. Furthermore, qualitative studies have shown that there is significant and widespread physical, psychological and sexual violence against women and girls in the country. The violence, particularly sexual violence, is much higher in areas experiencing armed conflict.
“This is unacceptable,” says the UNFPA Representative for Myanmar, Mr. Ramanathan Balakrishnan. “We must end harmful practices and this can be achieved only when both authorities and communities stand by the women and girls whose rights are being denied. Women and girls are entitled to the same rights and opportunities as men and boys.” Mr. Balakrishnan further added: “Women’s access to economic opportunities, and also the public space for their participation in political and peace processes need to strengthened and nurtured.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/51550-confronting-silent-and-endemic-crisis-harmful-practices




Date: 28 June 2020
Title: The United Nations expresses concern over the humanitarian impact of conflict in Rakhine and southern Chin states and calls on all parties to respect international humanitarian law and allow humanitarian access
Content: 28 June 2020
The United Nations is concerned by the continuing humanitarian impact of conflict in Rakhine and southern Chin states of western Myanmar.
This concern is further elevated by reports of intensified fighting between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army in and around the Kyauk Tan village-tract of Rathedaung Township in Rakhine State.
This village-tract and nearby area is home to more than 10,000 people, and local sources report that many in this area are now fleeing from their homes. There are also reports of people trapped by the fighting or lacking the means to move out of its way, with houses and other civilian property reportedly damaged or destroyed by the conflict.
The conflict in Rakhine and southern areas of Chin states continues to impact civilians. According to the Rakhine State Government and humanitarian partners, more than 77,200 men, women and children are currently displaced across the two states as of 21 June, out of which some 14,500 civilians have been displaced in Rathedaung.
The United Nations calls on the parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law, fulfill their responsibilities and take urgent measures to spare civilians and civilian infrastructure, to adhere to the fundamental principles of distinction, proportionality and precaution, and to facilitate the provision of relief to people fleeing from violence, those trapped in their villages and everyone affected by the conflict.
The United Nations also urges the parties to heed the call by the UN Secretary-General for a global ceasefire in order to enable efforts to prevent and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, which continues to evolve in Myanmar.
End
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/51223-united-nations-expresses-concern-over-humanitarian-impact-conflict-rakhine-and-southern-chin




Date: 19 June 2020
Title: UN Human Rights Office urges Myanmar to restore internet access in Rakhine, Chin States amid COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 19 June 2020
BANGKOK  – The UN Human Rights Office for South-East Asia urged Myanmar’s Government today to end an internet shutdown in Rakhine and Chin States that has been imposed for a year, warning the unprecedented internet blackout was now also endangering the lives of vulnerable civilians facing the COVID-19 pandemic.
Myanmar’s Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications ordered companies to sever internet data services in nine townships on 20 June 2019, claiming the move was a national security measure. Fighting between the military and the Arakan Army, which is drawn from the ethnic Rakhine minority, has killed hundreds of civilians and displaced thousands more since last year.
The volatile region is also home to several other minority communities, including the Rohingya who have suffered systematic persecution for decades. All communities have suffered as a result of the current violence and the internet shutdown.
“Disruption of internet services disproportionately impacts those who rely on timely, credible information to protect their lives and access humanitarian assistance,” said James Rodehaver, a senior human rights official in the South-East Asia Regional Office.
“If the intention of the shutdown was to increase security, it does not seem to have had that effect for the civilian population.”
The UN Human Rights Office also urged Myanmar military forces and the Arakan Army to heed the UN Secretary-General’s call for a global ceasefire and ensure the protection of civilians.
Restrictions imposed by authorities on humanitarian access in conflict-affected areas since at least January 2019 should be lifted as well.
Considerations of public health, civilian protection and the right to receive and impart information should take priority over national security arguments.
“Vulnerable communities are being deprived of potentially life-saving public health information during an unprecedented global pandemic and intensifying violence,” Rodehaver added. “It is critical to restore online access now.”
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/49972-un-human-rights-office-urges-myanmar-restore-internet-access-rakhine-chin-states-amid-covid




Date: 16 June 2020
Title: Towards innovative, conflict-sensitive and human rights-based approaches to forest monitoring
Content: 16 June 2020
The Governments of Myanmar and Finland today launched a trailblazing project designed to allow for monitoring of forests in a manner that is sensitive to local conflicts and protects human rights.
The five-year project will be led by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) thanks to a EUR 8 million endowment from the Government of Finland, a consistent partner in the promotion of environmental sustainability.
The project is innovative in taking a conflict sensitive and human rights-based approach to forest monitoring. This has global relevance as it will provide insights into how to bolster sustainable forests in other fragile countries affected by conflicts that are frequently exacerbated by disputes over tenure and access to natural resources.
"Actions to monitor and measure Myanmar's forests have great potential to deliver benefits for multiple purposes. In Myanmar there are many conflicts or mixed governance land areas, which pose particular challenges in working and engaging ethnic peoples and stakeholders in the measurement of forests," said Xiaojie Fan, FAO Representative to the country. "While performing the technical tasks of forest inventories, this new project will ensure that the socio-political and cultural context is explicitly addressed through appropriate conflict sensitive and Rights based approaches."
The virtual signing ceremony for the project was held in Myanmar's capital Nya Pyi Taw today and attended by the Director General of Myanmar's Forestry Department, Finland's Ambassador to Myanmar, and the FAO Representative to Myanmar.
"The project is innovative in developing an approach to National Forest Inventory (NFI) in areas with security and conflict issues; a much needed approach with global application. NFI involves the physical measurement of the trees and forest on the ground, which is essential for accurate information on forests, and the corner stone of National Forest Monitoring Systems", said Julian Fox, FAO's Team Leader of national forest monitoring. "Accurate forest monitoring is the foundation of natural resource management decision making as well as contributing to global efforts to preserve biodiversity and fight against climate change", he added.
National Forest Monitoring Systems  are also essential for evaluating and validating a country's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, an essential step toward enabling a country to obtain result-based payments from REDD+.
"In the Government and especially in the Forest Department we are very pleased with the support we are receiving through Finland and FAO for developing a truly national scale forest inventory, something which never has existed in the country before. We are in urgent need of better and updated data about the state of all the forests in Myanmar. These data will help to better plan and evaluate sustainable forest use and conservation in our country together with all stakeholders, public and private and also in the land areas of our ethnic brothers and sisters", said Dr. Nyi Nyi Kyaw, Director-General, Forest Department, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation.
Promoting sustainability
The human rights-based scope of the project is anticipated to actively contribute to alleviating conflicts and offer a platform for improving the livelihoods of the country where 70 percent of the population who live in Myanmar's rural areas and rely on the country's estimated 29 million hectares of forests for basic needs and service. It also has a special focus on engaging the more than 100 different ethnic groups, each with its own history, culture and language or dialect, who live in the country.
As some of Myanmar's regions are affected by internal conflicts, the project is designed to be participatory and inclusive, with extensive stakeholder consultations, communications and a grievance procedure that will include minority groups as well as global and national organizations with expertise in human rights and conflict. This will contribute to a do-no-harm approach in development projects related to the country's natural resources.
"Forest monitoring is part of Finland's support for Myanmar to mitigate and adapt to climate change. It is important that conflict sensitivity and human rights remain in the core of the forest monitoring work in order to ensure that it benefits all people, including ethnic minorities," Finland's Ambassador Riikka Laatu said. "Building a conflict sensitive and a human rights-based methodology to forest monitoring is a key target during the first phase of the program. This includes answering questions on openness of data and building trust between the villagers and forest authorities on the use of data."
FAO is pledging to use the human rights-based approach to forest monitoring developed under this project to craft global guidelines for conflict sensitivity and human rights-based approaches in ecosystem monitoring more broadly around the world.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/49561-towards-innovative-conflict-sensitive-and-human-rights-based-approaches-forest-monitoring




Date: 11 June 2020
Title: UN Supplies Over 75,000 Test Kits to Government of Myanmar in Fight Against COVID-19
Content: 11 June 2020
Testing remains one of the most effective ways of quick identification of cases, ensuring medical support for people who contracted the virus and immediate isolation to prevent its spread. Whilst providing supporting on preparedness and response across a broad range of areas, the United Nations in Myanmar has given specific emphasis to supporting the Government to increase its testing capacity.
Since the first recorded confirmed case in Myanmar, the United Nations has come together to mount a collective response to boost support to the Government of Myanmar’s testing strategy and has handed over 73,000 test kits to the Ministry of Health and Sports and its relevant laboratory facilities.
The first batch of 3,000 test reagents provided by the World Health Organization and its partners arrived in country late March. The Access to Health Fund, funded by the United Kingdom, Sweden, United States and Switzerland and managed by the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) has handed over more than 55,000 test kits in two separate batches, complimented by 20,000 more test kits procured by United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), also delivered in two batches during the last two months. The Access to Health Fund also delivered two automated sample extraction machines to the National Health Laboratory to improve the accuracy of testing.
United Nations support to respond to COVID-19 has also focused on providing protection for frontline healthcare workers and communities, support to strengthening existing capacities across various levels of government and at grassroots level to effectively prepare and respond, risk communication and community engagement, and ensuring continuity of ongoing development, and humanitarian programming.
Central to the UN’s collective response has been the launch of the World Food Programme’s (WFP) weekly aid flights between Yangon to Kuala Lumpur in light of the temporary suspension of commercial flights. Initially funded by the European Union and Switzerland, these WFP flights have facilitated the regular delivery to Myanmar of supplies, including test kits and other vital equipment, and the arrival of humanitarian and development personnel.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/49025-un-supplies-over-75000-test-kits-government-myanmar-fight-against-covid-19




Date: 11 June 2020
Title: Responding to COVID-19, UNODC equips frontline border officers across Myanmar with personal protective equipment
Content: 11 June 2020
UNODC provided the MPF with 20,000 surgical masks, 200 pairs of goggles, 8,000 pairs of disposable gloves, 160 protective suits and 60 contactless temperature scanners, which will now be used by frontline border officers at 13 land border crossings. The equipment was supplied by China’s Ministry of Public Security, who donated the PPE to UNODC for distribution across the BLO network.
“To ensure Myanmar’s border checkpoints are secure, frontline officers need to know they can carry out their job without unnecessary risk of contracting COVID-19,” said UNODC Officer in Charge for Myanmar, Marie Pegie-Cauchois. “Which is why UNODC has prioritized getting PPE and personal safety guides to those working in BLOs. It’s an essential step in preventing organized crime from taking advantage of the situation more than they already have. Human trafficking, migrant smuggling, wildlife and timber trafficking, and, particularly urgent given the situation in Myanmar, illicit drug flows, are at risk of increasing if border checkpoints are not operating as effectively as possible. We believe today’s handover of PPE is a significant step forward in mitigating these risks as we move forward.”
The handover takes place at a crucial point, as discussions of reopening borders and increasing trade between Myanmar and its neighbours are ongoing. As borders reopen, increased trade flows are expected, particularly in the initial days following border openings, emphasizing the importance of preparing BLOs and frontline officers now. Alongside the equipment being handed over are personal safety guides developed by UNODC providing detailed information on officer safety, effectively using PPE, as well as how standard operating procedures can be effectively adapted to allow licit goods to cross borders with minimal friction in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“We’re optimistic borders will reopen in the near future but we know it needs to be done safely,” said UNODC law enforcement expert Valentina Pancieri. “In this context, this handover is important for both increasing border security and for preventing the spread of COVID-19. This PPE is essential for keeping frontline officers safe, as well as those crossing the borders, so we really see this as a win-win situation, protecting public health and preventing illicit trafficking.”
The BLO network, coordinated by UNODC's Border Management Programme, is a central part of efforts to reduce illicit trafficking and to improve border management across the Mekong region. The network, which strengthens cross-border cooperation and information sharing at border crossings to counter transnational organized crime, has shown its effectiveness throughout the COVID-19 outbreak, providing a mechanism through which to quickly deliver PPE and info guides to border officers across Myanmar, and the rest of the region. UNODC now supports more than 70 BLOs throughout Southeast Asia, providing them with a combination of training, tools, systems and equipment on an ongoing basis.
The UNODC Regional Programme for Southeast Asia Sub-Programme 1 on Transnational Organised Crime and Illicit Trafficking helps strengthen cross-border law enforcement cooperation in particular through establishing and supporting border liaison offices in the region. The UNODC Country Programme for Myanmar Sub-Programme 1: Transnational Organized Crime and Illicit Trafficking similarly assists Myanmar with strengthening cross-border law enforcement cooperation in-part through establishing and supporting BLOs.
Click here for more information on UNODC's Myanmar Country Programme.
Click here to read more on the UNODC Border Management Programme.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/49028-responding-covid-19-unodc-equips-frontline-border-officers-across-myanmar-personal-protective




Date: 11 June 2020
Title: Myanmar signs up to key international convention on minimum working age ahead of the World Day Against Child Labour
Content: 11 June 2020
Myanmar confirmed its commitment to addressing child labour by ratifying the International Labour Organization (ILO) Minimum Age Convention on 8 June, just ahead of the World Day Against Child Labour on 12 June. The development has been heralded as a positive development, particularly in the context of the current COVID-19 crisis, which threatens the rights, safety and development of the estimated 1.13 million children in child labour across the country.
The Minimum Age Convention 138 requires countries to set a minimum age aligned with the end of compulsory education and under which no one shall be admitted to work in any occupation except light work and artistic performances. It also prohibits hazardous activities for anyone under 18 years old. In Myanmar, the minimum working age is 14 years old, as per the new Child Rights Law and existing Labour Law. The Convention also requires countries to establish national policies for the elimination of child labour.
Myanmar is the 178th country to ratify the convention and has an estimated 9.3% of the child population aged 5 to 17 in child labour, including more than 600,000 working in hazardous work environments.
According to a new report by the ILO and UNICEF, the 153 million children trapped in child labour around the world are at risk of entering hidden and more dangerous forms of work or working longer hours due to COVID-19.
Loss of livelihood, an illness or death in the family, displacement, and the raft of upheavals which are driving children out of school, orphaned or in financial troubles, are some of the COVID-19 related factors that are pushing millions of vulnerable children – even those at a very young age – to work in hazardous conditions. As of May 2020, more than 60,000 people have already lost their jobs in Myanmar; and as the crisis continues, deeper cuts in workers’ salaries or more employment terminations are expected to occur.
The ILO, UNICEF and partners are using the World Day Against Child Labour to draw attention to the importance of vigilance and a coordinated response to protect vulnerable children from the pandemic’s far-reaching economic and social impact.
Donglin Li, ILO Liaison Officer, called for continuous action and support to ongoing national efforts in combating child labour. “There is significant momentum towards preventing and eliminating child labour in Myanmar as it has implemented the National Action Plan on Child Labour and ratified the ILO Convention 138 on the minimum age on June 8,” Li said. “We must overcome the current COVID-19 crisis and work together to continue and reinforce the momentum to achieve Target 8.7 of the Sustainable Development Goals on elimination of child labour by 2025.”
“As we fight the impacts of COVID-19 together, we must provide additional protection for children so they are not put in a situation where they are forced into the most dangerous forms of labour, that push them to miss school and impair their health and well-being,” Alessandra Dentice, Deputy Representative of UNICEF Myanmar, added. “We need integrated approaches that strengthen child protection systems and simultaneously address poverty and inequity, improve access to and quality of education and inform and mobilize the public to respect children’s rights."
As part of the World Day Against Child Labour campaign in Myanmar, the Ministry of Labour, Immigration and Population (MoLIP), in collaboration with the ILO, and in partnership with the Embassy of Switzerland, are organizing a series of events throughout Myanmar through until September 30. Photo exhibitions in the Central Railway Station, Dala Ferries and Junction City will open on June 15, while online campaigns and awareness raising activities across various states and regions will take place over the coming months.
Tim Enderlin, Ambassador of Switzerland to Myanmar, explained his support for the campaign: “Children simply should not work. Switzerland welcomes Myanmar’s ratification of the Minimum Age Convention. We consider this an important step forward. However, a lot remains to be done and COVID19 has not made the challenges any smaller. The Swiss Embassy is proud to support this year’s campaign of the Ministry of Labour, Immigration and Population in collaboration with ILO on the World Day Against Child Labour.”
Human rights-based and child-centred response to COVID-19 recovery
The World Day Against Child Labour is celebrated worldwide annually on 12 June to call attention to the global child labour challenges and to drive collective action to end all forms of child labour by 2025.
The United Nations has declared 2021 as the International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour. While there have been significant improvements towards this goal, COVID-19 could set governments and social institutions many steps back.
The ILO is thus urging partners to join efforts that build on the respective ILO Conventions and Recommendations, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and protect all children in or at risk of child labour and ensure that they are a priority in the COVID-19 response. The ILO’s recommendations include:
1) Protecting workers and their families and providing livelihoods support: All employers and workers and their families should be protected from the health risks of COVID-19.
2) Strengthened social protection for all: Social protection provides essential support that helps families weather health and economic shocks.
3) Public Quality Education for All: COVID-19 has forced school closures in many countries. Children who were already working part of their time or who are at risk of child labour may never return to school so there should be low technology to no-technology interventions that allow vulnerable children to keep up.
4) Increased advocacy and partnerships: It is even more important to keep the spotlight on vulnerable children and families and to work together with all concerned partners to ensure that the needs of children are at the forefront of the crisis response.
Workers, employers and their organisations play a key role in preventing child labour by addressing the health risks at work and the economic consequences of the pandemic. Social dialogue has proven to be absolutely crucial for a balanced crisis management and response, ensuring protection of workers’ rights, the rights of children as well as business continuity.
Notes to Editor:
In Myanmar, ILO’s work to combat child labour is done through the Myanmar Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour (My-PEC) , funded by the US Department of Labour.
Myanmar has ratified ILO Convention No.182 on the worst forms of child labour in December 2013. Since then collaboration to combat child labour between ILO and Myanmar started at not only in policy and legislation areas, but also in terms of the actual implementation of those policy in the ground, which includes the adoption of the first National Action Plan (NAP) on Child Labour in 2019, which includes the list of hazardous work prohibited to children under 18 as required by the Convention. On June 08 2020 Myanmar ratified ILO Convention 138 on the minimum working age.
The Government announced the creation of a National Child Labour Eradication Committee in 2018 to fast track the implementation of the NAP. The ultimate goal of the NAP as expressed in the Government’s manifesto says that, “By 2030 all boys and girls in Myanmar are effectively prevented and protected from child labour, especially the worst forms.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/49209-myanmar-signs-key-international-convention-minimum-working-age-ahead-world-day-against-child




Date: 03 June 2020
Title: United Nations Provides Food Assistance for Migrant Workers Returning from China and Thailand
Content: 03 June 2020
Since April, WFP, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Sports and the respective state and regional governments, has provided safe and nutritious cooked meals, meal boxes and, wherever feasible, fortified blended food to some 35,000 returning migrant workers upon their arrival and while they were in transit sites and quarantine centres in Kayin, Mon and Shan states and Yangon and Tanintharyi regions.
In the coming weeks, many more are expected to return as businesses and factories they once worked for have been forced to close down due to COVID-10. Among them, some 150,000 are expected to be returning mostly from Thailand.
“At this challenging time, it is vital that the returning families’ essential food and nutrition needs are met while they comply with the Government’s measures to keep the virus at bay,” said Stephen Anderson, WFP Myanmar Country Director.
“When the first batches of returnees arrived from Thailand, we faced hurdles in managing food and other support for them as it was not possible to know how many would come back and when,” U Bo Bo Wai Maung, the Minister for Social Affairs of the Kayin State Government said.
“Now, as we face a second wave of returning migrants, thanks to WFP working together with the State Government, we are providing the returnees nutritious food and drinking water from the moment they set foot in Myanmar and throughout their quarantine stay.”
Starting from early May, WFP has been organizing weekly aid flights connecting Yangon and Kuala Lumpur bringing in vital humanitarian supplies as well as providing transport to aid worker teams.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/48141-united-nations-provides-food-assistance-migrant-workers-returning-china-and-thailand




Date: 29 May 2020
Title: United Nations Support to Scale Up Government Capacity to Tackle COVID-19
Content: 29 May 2020
Since the early days of the outbreak, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has been working closely with the Government to provide direct assistance. In recent weeks, more than 8,700 bottles of hand gel and 260 temperature screeners were handed over to the Union Parliaments, the Myanmar Anti-Corruption Commission, the Union Civil Service Board, the Union Attorney General’s Office, the Office of the Supreme Court of the Union, the Myanmar National Human Rights Commission and other counterparts. Similar assistance was also provided to local communities in collaboration with 12 CSOs in Kachin and Rakhine states. To assist community awareness building, about 100 loudspeakers are also being provided to the Department of Disaster Management. Further, UNDP will be assisting nine state and regional governments in strengthening health support through providing personal protection equipment (PPE) and other necessary medical supplies, with the first batch of PPEs due to be handed over in the next two weeks.
UNDP continues to enhance the capacities of mational institutions to operate effectively during the COVID-19 pandemic. Through its Support to Effective and Responsive Institutions Project (SERIP), UNDP organized a webinar for Union Hluttaw MPs, on the topic of the COVID-19 Economic Relief Plan (CERP) and the role of MPs with regard to this important national plan. UNDP’s project on Strengthening Accountability and Rule of Law (SARL) is providing video conferencing equipment to the Myanmar Anti-Corruption Commission and the Myanmar National Human Rights Commission. This support will allow enhanced coordination and timely provision of services to general public. It will have a positive impact on the operations and activities of the Government institutions and CSOs to allow staff to continue ongoing coordination work while observing physical distancing measures.
Earlier in April, UNDP collaborated with relevant Government entities at union and state levels to prepare and submit loan applications to the COVID-19 Fund set up by the Government of Myanmar. A fund of 100 billion Myanmar kyats was set up to provide immediate loans to enterprises in the socio-economic sector impacted by the COVID-19. UNDP facilitated over 180 applications to this fund.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/47657-united-nations-support-scale-government-capacity-tackle-covid-19




Date: 27 May 2020
Title: LIFT and DSW announce USD9 million in COVID-19 cash support to mothers, pregnant women and social pension beneficiaries
Content: 27 May 2020
The support will be delivered to mothers of children under the age of two, pregnant women, and older people over the age of 85 who are beneficiaries of DSW’s two social protection programmes; the Maternal and Child Cash Transfer Programme and the Social Pension Programme. Each beneficiary will receive a one-off MMK30,000 cash payment and the disbursements will start later this week. The funding is provided by LIFT’s donors United Kingdom, the European Union, Switzerland, Australia, the United States of America, Canada and Ireland.
In line with the Government of Myanmar’s COVID-19 Coordinated Economic Relief Plan and in support of the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement’s commitment to social protection, this cash support will help ease the direct impact on 400,000 people and indirect impact on nearly 2 million people across the country during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Department of Social Welfare’s Director General, Dr San San Aye, said: “Myanmar’s vision for social protection is an inclusive, equitable and sustainable system that facilitates access to essential social services, protects people from risks and shocks, addresses economic and social vulnerabilities and food insecurity, promotes economic opportunities and alleviates social exclusion, as per the Government of Myanmar’s National Social Protection Strategic Plan of 2014. In times of crisis such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, we will build on and strengthen our outreach to Myanmar’s most vulnerable people. The cash transfers to mothers and older people are a symbol of this, and will be followed by further efforts as outlined in Goal 4 of the Government’s COVID-19 Coordinated Economic Relief Plan, in our effort to ease the impact on households.
LIFT Fund Director Katy Webley said: “The COVID-19 pandemic is a challenge to Myanmar and its people, today and for the foreseeable future, as families struggle with food and health costs amid uncertain income. As can be seen around the world, cash assistance put in the hands of ordinary people is a fast, effective, empowering way of helping families to get through this crisis – and it helps build a fairer system for the future.”
The beneficiaries are the recipients of the Government’s existing maternal and child cash transfer (MCCT) and the social pension programmes, with this as a top-up to support their families’ needs. In connection with the cash payments, beneficiaries will be informed how they can prepare and slow down the spread of the virus in their families and communities.
Support to mothers
Budget: USD4.93m
Number of beneficiaries: 241,425 in total
The programme will provide an additional one-time payment of MMK30,000 for the families of pregnant women and mothers of children under the age of two years (in addition to the existing monthly payment of MMK15,000) in Chin, Kayah, Kayin Rakhine State, Naga Self-Administered Area. The support is delivered via the existing Maternal and Child Cash Transfer (MCCT) programme initiated by LIFT. MCCT has been implemented in Rakhine, Kayin, Kayah and the Naga Self-Administrated Area since the 2017-2018 fiscal year from the national budget. The Chin MCCT Programme is being implemented through the national budget this fiscal year.
Implementing partners: Department of Social Welfare in collaboration with Civil Health and Development Network (in Kayah) and Karen Department of Health and Welfare (in Kayin).
Support to older people
Budget: USD4.07m
Number of beneficiaries: 200,301 in total
The programme will provide an additional one-time payment of MMK30,000 to people aged 85 and over (in addition to the existing average monthly payment of MMK10,000). The support is delivered via the social pension programme, implemented by the Department of Social Welfare since the 2017-2018 fiscal year as a nationwide Government programme, in line with Social Protection Strategy.
Implementing partners: Department of Social Welfare, with technical assistance from HelpAge International.
The programme will:
● Prevent the spread of COVID-19 among vulnerable populations (pregnant women and mothers and their children under two), their families and their communities residing in the most vulnerable and conflict affected states of Myanmar (Rakhine, Chin, Kayah, Kayin and Naga);
● Prevent the spread of COVID-19 among vulnerable older people (85+), their families and their communities nationwide;
● Provide a safety net for the most vulnerable and their families, reaching them through
the existing social protection services, in order to mitigate the worsening effects the COVID-19 crisis is expected to have on income and nutrition security;
● Strengthen the institutional capacities of the Department of Social Welfare to respond to emergencies through the provision of social protection services for the most vulnerable population.
LIFT announced its overall COVID-19 assistance package worth USD15.8 million in April. This is estimated to benefit 5.9 million people in Myanmar.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/47563-lift-and-dsw-announce-usd9-million-covid-19-cash-support-mothers-pregnant-women-and-social




Date: 22 May 2020
Title: United Nations Launches Global Initiative to Combat Misinformation
Content: 22 May 2020
“We cannot cede our virtual spaces to those who traffic in lies, fear and hate,” said UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, who announced the initiative. “Misinformation spreads online, in messaging apps and person to person. Its creators use savvy production and distribution methods. To counter it, scientists and institutions like the United Nations need to reach people with accurate information they can trust.”
Verified, led by the UN Department for Global Communications, will provide information around three themes: science – to save lives; solidarity – to promote local and global cooperation; and solutions – to advocate for support to impacted populations. It will also promote recovery packages that tackle the climate crisis and address the root causes of poverty, inequality and hunger.
The initiative is calling on people around the world to sign up to become “information volunteers” to share trusted content to keep their families and communities safe and connected. Described as digital first responders, the volunteers will receive a daily feed of verified content optimized for social sharing with simple, compelling messaging that either directly counters misinformation or fills an information void.
Verified will partner with UN agencies and UN country teams, influencers, civil society, business and media organizations to distribute trusted, accurate content and work with social media platforms to root out hate and harmful assertions about COVID-19.
“In many countries the misinformation surging across digital channels is impeding the public health response and stirring unrest. There are disturbing efforts to exploit the crisis to advance nativism or to target minority groups, which could worsen as the strain on societies grows and the economic and social fallout kicks in,” Melissa Fleming, UN Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications, said. “The Verified initiative will also work to address this trend with hopeful content that celebrates local acts of humanity, the contributions of refugees and migrants, and makes the case for global cooperation.”
The initiative is a collaboration with Purpose, one of the world’s leading social mobilization organizations. It is supported by the IKEA Foundation and Luminate.
Patricia Atkinson, the IKEA Foundation’s Chief Programmes Officer, said: “The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented global health crisis. The IKEA Foundation is proud to be supporting Verified -- an initiative aiming to make sure everyone has access to the trusted science and advice they need to keep their family and loved ones safe.”
Nishant Lalwani, Managing Director of Luminate, added: “COVID-19 has provided a stark reminder that access to accurate, trusted information can be the difference between fear and resilience, division and unity, and even life and death. We are proud to be supporting Verified and its work to tackle the coronavirus ‘infodemic’ by rapidly spreading reliable, science-based information to protect people and communities around the world.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/46952-united-nations-launches-global-initiative-combat-misinformation




Date: 14 May 2020
Title: United Nations Supports Frontline Healthcare Workers and Communities to Protect Themselves Against COVID-19
Content: 14 May 2020
The Access to Health Fund, funded by the United Kingdom, Sweden, United States and Switzerland and managed by the UN’s Office for Project Services (UNOPS) is supporting the Ministry of Health and Sports (MoHS), ethnic health providers and communities with the provision of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). In April, over 150,000 surgical gloves and more than 500,000 surgical masks were procured to help protect frontline healthcare workers. In addition, 2,000 person/days of PPEs have been procured and are on the way. Furthermore, UNOPS’s Access to Health Fund plans to provide at least 50,000 coveralls in mid-May to support MoHS and ethnic health providers in Myanmar’s conflict-affected areas.
With support from the Women and Girls First (WGF) Programme, funded by Australia, European Union, Germany, Finland, Sweden and Italy, and the Access to Health Fund, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) has also provided protective supplies, including 12,000 surgical masks, hand sanitizers, face shields and PPEs to Maternal Reproductive Health Division of the Department of Public Health in Nay Pyi Taw. Additionally, a total of 1,500 PPE kits have been provided for State Health Departments in Kachin, Kayin, Mon, Shan and Rakhine states.
UNFPA supports the MoHS to keep health systems functioning and plans to provide a further 3,000 PPE kits for midwives to maintain the provision of sexual and reproductive health and rights services. This will be the first phase of PPE support to midwives, in addition to making available training resources for COVID-19 adapted service provision to pregnant women.
To counter the economic impact of COVID-19 and integrate women in the public health rapid response, UN Women in collaboration with Finn Church Aid Consortium (FCAC) is supporting women to transition their livelihoods activities towards mask production. FCAC has been retraining women to produce nonmedical cloth masks from 100 per cent cotton fabric in accordance with guidelines issued by MoHS. Twenty-five women have already been retrained in Sittwe and Mrauk-U townships. The tailors have already achieved a production capacity of 1,500-2,000 masks per week. The first batch of masks were handed over to humanitarian organizations in Rakhine and distributed to people in quarantine centers in Sittwe and volunteers managing the centers.
The United Nations remains fully committed to supporting the Government and people of Myanmar to prepare and respond to COVID-19. While maintaining ongoing development and humanitarian programming, the United Nations has reprogrammed support and significantly scaled up efforts on COVID-19 preparedness and response.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/45665-united-nations-supports-frontline-healthcare-workers-and-communities-protect-themselves




Date: 11 May 2020
Title: UNDP, UNHCR and the Government of the Union of Myanmar extend MoU
Content: 11 May 2020
The exchange of letters was signed by the Myanmar Ministry of Labour, Immigration, and Population, and by representatives of UNDP and UNHCR in Naypyidaw, Myanmar, and will extend cooperation through June 2021.
The MoU aims at helping create a conducive environment for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable repatriation of Rohingya refugees from Bangladesh as well as supporting recovery and resilience-based development for the benefit of all communities living in the three northern townships of Rakhine State. This framework for cooperation between the UN and the Government was initially signed on 6 June 2018, and previously extended in May 2019.
Welcoming the extension of the agreement, UNDP and UNHCR commented:
“While the environment in Rakhine State is not yet conducive to the voluntary repatriation of refugees, the MoU has allowed UNHCR and UNDP teams to assess the immediate needs in over 120 villages so far in Maungdaw and Buthidaung townships. We have consulted over 2,600 people on their communities’ priorities, ensuring that the projects will best meet their needs and serve to promote social cohesion between communities.”
Since the initial MoU was signed in 2018, a total of 75 quick impact projects (QIPs) have been approved, including for community infrastructure such as water improvement, school and road rehabilitation, skills training and income-generating projects, as well as projects targeting persons with speciﬁc needs. A seventh round of assessments is now proceeding but constrained due to the COVID-19 situation. Efforts are underway to raise awareness within the communities about COVID-19 prevention.
This latest extension of the MoU comes amid ongoing armed conflict leading to increased humanitarian needs among all communities across the state, and deepening the operational challenges faced by UNDP, UNHCR and partner organizations. Consistent access for UNDP, UNHCR and their partners is essential to ensure expanded implementation of the MoU.
During the extended implementation period, efforts to carry out assessments in Rathedaung township and medium-term planning for inclusive socio-economic development are priorities.
Commenting on the situation in Rakhine State, UNDP and UNHCR said:
“Creating a conducive environment for the voluntary, safe and digniﬁed return of refugees and to improving the enjoyment of human rights for the population still residing in Myanmar is the responsibility of the Government of Myanmar, and UNDP and UNHCR remain committed to supporting this work. We call on the Government to address the root causes of the crisis by fully implementing the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State, including those on freedom of movement, a clear and voluntary pathway to citizenship and increased access to public services and livelihoods.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/45328-undp-unhcr-and-government-union-myanmar-extend-mou




Date: 10 May 2020
Title: United Nations Launches European Union/Switzerland-Funded  Flights, with First Rotation Delivering 10,000 UNICEF COVID-19 Kits
Content: 10 May 2020
As international commercial flights remain temporarily suspended as part of the measures to contain the spread of the COVID-19, the World Food Programme (WFP), on behalf of the United Nations in Myanmar, is launching a series of humanitarian/development flights linking Yangon and Kuala Lumpur to bring in cargo and personnel.
The first flight saw the arrival of 10,000 COVID-19 test kits, the first batch of 20,000 kits, reagents and viral transport medium that United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has procured as part of its ongoing support to the efforts of Ministry of Health and Sports (MoHS) to scale up testing capacity and fight against the pandemic.
Generous financial support from the European Union and Switzerland has made it possible for WFP to establish the first stage of the flight service linking Yangon with Kuala Lumpur on a weekly basis. Each flight can bring to Myanmar up to two metric tons of cargo, in addition to personnel of the UN and international humanitarian and development partners.
“WFP is proud to do its part to support key logistical aspects of the international community’s response to COVID-19 in Myanmar,” said WFP Myanmar’s Country Director, Mr. Stephen Anderson. “These flights will speed up import of vital medical supplies and equipment in support of the government’s efforts to combat this pandemic. They also help the movement of relief workers,” said Mr. Anderson.
The first batch of test kits are handed over to MoHS to boost the testing capacity of the National Health Laboratory and help meet the increasing testing needs. The second batch is expected to arrive before June 2020.
“Laboratory testing of suspected COVID-19 cases and tracing of contacts is a key strategy to implement effective containment and treatment measures,” said Ms. June Kunugi, UNICEF Representative to Myanmar. “The delivery of test kits would not be possible without the relief flights that are being coordinated by WFP and the generous funding support from Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance,” added Ms. Kunugi.
“I am proud to see how United Nations in Myanmar is coming together to mount a collective effort to support the Government and contain the spread of this disease,” said the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar, Mr. Ola Almgren. “I would like to thank the European Union and Switzerland for making this possible as well as WFP and UNICEF and all agencies involved in our joint response to this pandemic, under the technical leadership of the World Health Organization,” said Mr. Almgren.
“I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to all donors and Member States for their financial support through the United Nations,” said the UN Resident Coordinator. “Today, we are witnessing what togetherness and solidarity can bring in our joint battle against this common enemy,” noted Mr. Almgren. “We are in this together, and we will get through this together.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/45215-united-nations-launches-european-unionswitzerland-funded-flights-first-rotation-delivering




Date: 03 May 2020
Title: WFP News Release: WFP food reaches communities affected by conflict and hunger in remote Paletwa, Chin State
Content: 03 May 2020
Paletwa, Myanmar – Emergency food supplies from the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) have successfully reached communities stranded for months in Paletwa on Saturday. Some 3,700 conflict-affected people will receive food assistance from WFP starting from today.
For the past few months, trade and supply routes going into Paletwa, a remote town in southern Chin State, near the border with Rakhine State, have been largely cut off due to intensified fighting. Families were forced to skip meals and forage wild plants for food. Some resorted to selling or eating their livestock, a coping strategy that could hurt longer-term agricultural productivity and food security.
“WFP’s food has made it to Paletwa, and we thank the Chin State government and many others for their cooperation, but our work doesn’t stop here,” says Stephen Anderson, WFP Country Director in Myanmar. “The communities are extremely vulnerable and need sustained support to prevent the food situation from getting worse.”
The delivery was hampered by insecurity earlier, when, on 29 April, a convoy of five WFPcontracted trucks carrying the food aid was fired on by unidentified gunmen while en route to Paletwa. One convoy worker sustained a minor injury and three trucks were damaged. Despite this, the convoy was able to continue its journey. When the food reached a river crossing point near Paletwa, WFP shipped it by boat to reach its final destination.
Earlier in April, with the support of the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement and the Chin State government, WFP was able to deliver food and essential kitchen utensils to 2,600 newly displaced people also affected by the conflict in nearby Samee Town.
# # #
The United Nations World Food Programme - saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development. WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future. Follow us on
Twitter @WFP_Media and @WFPAsiaPacific
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/44011-wfp-news-release-wfp-food-reaches-communities-affected-conflict-and-hunger-remote-paletwa




Date: 01 May 2020
Title: ILO Calls for COVID-19 Responses to Recognise Workers Rights and Promote Social Justice on Labour Day
Content: 01 May 2020
“This year more than ever there is a certain poignancy about today, and it gives us an opportunity to reflect on what the world of work is going to look like, not just during the pandemic but more importantly as we recover” – Mr Li said.
In marking May Day and the unprecedented health and economic crisis brought about by COVID-19, Mr Donglin Li, stated:  “this is not only a health crisis, but also creates challenges in supporting and safeguarding the economic livelihoods for businesses and workers in Myanmar, and we must ensure that any response measures respect for workers’ rights and promote social justice”. He noted that the situation is made more complex because Myanmar’s hardship echoes that felt in other countries through various supply chains.
Mr Li highlighted the importance of sound occupational safety and health practices that do not put workers at risk - noting that this week was also world OSH day which raised awareness about actions to protect workers and their families against infection and the social security options available if Myanmar workers are laid off. He also referred to effective social protection measures, protecting against stigma and discrimination, upholding workers’ rights under Myanmar’s labour laws and international labour standards, and ensuring that workers right to organize and bargain collectively are upheld.
The ILO has been providing immediate support to Governments, employers and workers across the globe and also in Myanmar to respond to the health crisis and accompanying social and economic crisis.
The ILO initiated immediate support for CTUM to establish an emergency employment and reskilling centre for workers who have lost their jobs – particularly in the garment sector. It supported the AFFM – IUF to prepare brochure and banners to raise awareness about COVID-19, establish self-help groups in five target areas, as well as measures to support for farmers. The ILO is also providing support to MICS-TUsF to provide training for laid off workers on self-employment initiatives, install COVID-19 awareness billboards and deliver hand sanitizer, masks and other awareness raising material to garment workers. In addition, the ILO has been providing care packages and access to para legal assistance at the borders where thousands of workers who have lost their jobs are returning from Thailand.
Mr Li emphasized the importance of taking a holistic approach to labour market responses. The ILO’s global response refers to four inter-related priorities and urges governments to take following actions:
•    Stimulating the economy and demand for labour by using available fiscal and monetary tools and debt relief. 
•    Providing immediate assistance to sustain enterprises, preserve jobs and support incomes including for example investing in social protection
•    Ensuring adequate protection for all those who continue to work during the crisis. That requires guarantees for safety and health in the workplace.
•    Ensuring social dialogue between governments, workers and employers’ organizations, which has a proven record of generating effective, practical, and equitable solutions to the type of challenges now confronting the world of work.
Mr Li also emphasized that the ILO will continue to work closely with the Ministry of Labour, Immigration and Population, UMFCCI, CTUM, AFFM-IUF and MICS-TUsF as part of its contribution to the United Nations’ country team efforts to support Myanmar’s response to the crisis and promote decent work under Goal 8 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/43868-ilo-calls-covid-19-responses-recognise-workers-rights-and-promote-social-justice-labour-day




Date: 30 April 2020
Title: Statement by the United Nations in Myanmar
Content: 30 April 2020
UN in Myanmar Statement
Further to the call by the Secretary-General on 21 April for a full and transparent investigation into the incident and for the perpetrators to be brought to justice, the United Nations in Myanmar welcomes the establishment by the President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar of an investigation committee on the attack on a UN vehicle in Minbya Township in Rakhine state which resulted in the death of Mr. Pyae Sone Win Maung, a personnel (driver) of the World Health Organization (WHO).
End
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/43743-statement-united-nations-myanmar




Date: 27 April 2020
Title: UN Strengthens Efforts to Reduce Socio-Economic Impact of COVID-19
Content: 27 April 2020
The coronavirus outbreak is causing a global health emergency. It is also resulting in a global economic slowdown. In Myanmar and around the world, trade, investment, growth, and employment and small-scale income mechanisms are all affected. Together with its broader support in efforts to contain the spread of the virus, the United Nations is working with the Government of Myanmar to reduce the economic impact of COVID-19 on small-scale enterprises.
The European Union has mobilized a €5 million emergency cash fund for garment sector workers through its Nexus Response for Myanmar, which is managed by the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS). In the current circumstance, out of 700,000 workers in the apparel industry, an estimated 350,000 are at risk of either being suspended without pay or losing their jobs permanently. This emergency cash fund will aim to reach more than 80,000 people who face the impact of COVID-19.
The Livelihoods and Food Security Fund (LIFT), funded by the United Kingdom, the European Union, Australia, Switzerland, the United States of America, Canada and Ireland and managed by UNOPS, has allocated US$3 million for its capital market programme, increasing liquidity through microfinance institutions (MFIs). The new funding will allow MFIs to access a total of US$60 million loan capital, which in turn will benefit around 500,000 people. The funding will allow MFIs to offer loan top-ups of US$100-200 to clients in areas expected to be hit hard by COVID-19. Beneficiaries will include households, farmers and garment workers.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has collaborated with the Directorate of Industrial Supervision and Inspection of the Ministry of Planning, Finance and Industry to support small-scale businesses from Yangon, Sittwe and Mandalay to prepare and submit loan applications to COVID-19 Fund set up by the Government of Myanmar at one per cent rate of interest for a one-year period. A fund of 100 billion Myanmar Kyats has been set up to provide immediate loans to enterprises designated in sectors impacted by the COVID-19. The categories include Cut Make Pack enterprises, hotels and tourism, and small and medium enterprises. UNDP has facilitated over 180 applications since the Fund was established in early April.
COVID-19 has also exposed gender inequalities in the business sector. In Myanmar, women represent 60 per cent of the employee engaged in the food and accommodation services, and between 70 to 90 per cent of the street food vendors. Women also constitute the majority of Myanmar garment workers, many of whom already affected by factory closures. Women’s economic empowerment includes their ability to participate equally in existing markets; their access to and control over productive resources, access to decent work, control over their own time, lives and bodies; and increased voice, and meaningful participation in economic decision-making at all levels from the household to international institutions.
Women’s economic empowerment is essential in driving economic development forward, and global evidence proves that the inclusion of women in the economy increases and boosts GDP growth, productivity, economic diversification and income equality. To support a gender sensitive response, UN Women is working through its regional #WeEmpowerAsia program supported by the European Union to lead two surveys focusing on women’s economic empowerment. The first survey will look at the impact
of the COVID-19 on women entrepreneurs and facilities supporting women entrepreneurs, while the second looks at the impact of the crisis on employees. The results that will be shared with the government and development partners, will be used to develop initiatives that fully address the needs of women in the private sector.
The Myanmar Sustainable Development Plan notes that small-scale businesses are vital for private sector-led economic growth and are essential for sustained, broad-based job creation. The United Nations is committed to foster economic empowerment, including through gender equality in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
End
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/43177-un-strengthens-efforts-reduce-socio-economic-impact-covid-19




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: UN Supports Government to Safeguard Prison Population Amidst COVID-19 Outbreak in Country
Content: 24 April 2020
As part of actions to protect the health and safety of persons held in detention facilities and in line with the Myanmar New Year tradition, the President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar announced a pardon on 17 April and released close to 25,000 people. The pardoning comes in addition to the government’s ongoing efforts in prisons and detention facilities to strengthen sanitary procedures, screening processes and isolation of those remaining detainees or prisoners who fall ill. Ensuring early preventive measures and responding rapidly to any suspected or positive cases of COVID-19 is key to safeguarding the prison’s population. The United Nations has also joined the relevant Government authorities to support these efforts.
The UN’s Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC), is working with Myanmar’s Chief Medical Officer and the Prison Department to develop both short and medium-term plans to strengthen logistics and preparedness for COVID-19 in detention facilities.
The Access to Health Fund, funded by the United Kingdom, Sweden, United States and Switzerland and managed by the UN’s Office for Project Services (UNOPS) is also supporting UNODC with communicating about the risks of COVID-19 among the prison population and procuring infection control equipment and supplies. Support includes distribution of masks, gloves, soap, hand sanitizer, thermometers and personal protective equipment.  Awareness-raising activities on COVID19 will take place, as well as the sharing of information on how to maintain vital health care services such as antiretroviral therapy, tuberculosis treatment or methadone maintenance therapy within a COVID-19 pandemic situation, or when prisoners are released from prison.
UNODC has developed and distributed materials on the risk of COVID-19 and essential health information, Tuberculosis, antiretroviral therapy and overdose treatment for prisoners already released. The United Nations is also planning support for longer term mitigation strategies, such as reducing prison overcrowding, and ensuring the knowledge and resources needed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in all of Myanmar’s prisons and detention facilities.
The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) supported the Ministry of Health and Sports and non-governmental organizations to deliver life-saving antiretroviral (ART) medicine, provided referral contacts and ensured transportation for prisoners who are living with HIV. UNAIDS also provided up to six months of medicines to released prisoners who would face challenges commuting to treatment centers at times when COVID-19 travel restrictions are in place.
“The United Nations welcomes the pardoning of deserving prisoners as part of Myanmar New Year tradition,” said the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Mr. Ola Almgren. “This also converges with the Government’s measures taken to prevent and contain the spread of the virus across various directions, and detention facilities is one of them,” said Mr. Almgren. “The United Nations reiterates our support to the Government and the people of Myanmar in responding to the threat of COVID-19 across all areas and the commitment to leaving no one behind in all of our humanitarian, development, recovery and peacebuilding efforts,” stressed Mr. Almgren.
End
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/43033-un-supports-government-safeguard-prison-population-amidst-covid-19-outbreak-country




Date: 23 April 2020
Title: Myanmar: SRSG Gamba Echoes UN Secretary-General’s Call for Ceasefire as Alarming Increase in Child Casualties in 2020
Content: 23 April 2020
New York - The Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, Virginia Gamba, calls on all parties to conflict in Myanmar to urgently implement all necessary measures to protect children from hostilities, as recent numbers show a deeply concerning increase in child casualties in the first months of 2020. While data is still being collected, the number of children killed and maimed in the first three months of 2020 already amounts to more than half of the total of killing and maiming in 2019, and significantly surpasses the total number of child casualties for 2018.
Of particular concern is the number of children killed or maimed as a result of airstrikes, landmines, explosive remnants of war and crossfire in Rakhine and Chin states, where the conflict between the Government Forces (the Tatmadaw) and the Arakan Army has seen an unprecedented escalation in recent months.
“I urge all parties in Myanmar to act on the Secretary-General’s global call for ceasefire and put an effective halt to hostilities, as the world is facing a joint battle against COVID-19. I welcome the ceasefires already announced by several armed groups in the country and call for their effective implementation,” said the Special Representative.
“In these challenging times, more than ever, humanitarian and child protection partners on the ground must be allowed to safely access the populations in need, especially children who are particularly vulnerable in times of conflict”, she added. She further condemns the recent attacks against health workers delivering life-saving aid to populations in need in Rakhine state.
This recent escalation in hostilities also resulted in an increase in incidents ​affecting schools and hospitals ​causing serious damage ​to infrastructure and loss of life. The Special Representative calls on all parties to protect the civilian character of schools and hospitals and to prioritize them as safe places for learning and urges the Government of Myanmar to endorse the Safe Schools Declaration.
She further calls on the Government to strengthen its collaboration with the United Nations on the development and signature of a joint Action Plan to end and prevent the killing and maiming of children and sexual violence against children, two violations for which the Tatmadaw is listed in the latest Secretary-General Annual Report on Children and Armed Conflict (A/73/907–S/2019/509). She reiterates the willingness and availability of the United Nations to support the authorities in that regard.
The Special Representative reminds parties in Myanmar of their obligations under domestic and international law, including the new Child Rights Law which criminalizes all six grave violations against children. She calls on all parties to respect the principles of distinction and proportionality and to take all feasible precautions to avoid and minimize harm to civilians, including children, and civilian facilities.
###
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/42881-myanmar-srsg-gamba-echoes-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-call-ceasefire-alarming-increase-child




Date: 21 April 2020
Title: United Nations Myanmar Statement
Content: 21 April 2020
UN in Myanmar Statement
The United Nations is deeply saddened to confirm that Mr Pyae Sone Win Maung, a personnel (driver) of the World Health Organization, has died after being wounded in a security incident in Minbya Township in Rakhine State on the evening of Monday 20thApril 2020. The WHO colleague was driving a marked UN vehicle from Sittwe to Yangon transporting COVID19 surveillance samples in support of the Ministry of Health and Sports. The United Nations is seeking further information on the circumstances of the incident.
We extend our deepest condolences to the family of our colleague.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/42382-united-nations-myanmar-statement




Date: 21 April 2020
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesman for the Secretary General – Myanmar
Content: 21 April 2020
The Secretary-General strongly condemns the 20 April attack in Rakhine state, Myanmar, on a World Health Organization (WHO) vehicle transporting COVID-19 surveillance samples, in which a WHO colleague suffered fatal injuries and a Government official was seriously wounded.  The Secretary-General expresses his condolences to the family of the deceased and wishes a swift recovery to the injured.  He calls for a full and transparent investigation into the incident and for the perpetrators to be brought to justice.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/42550-statement-attributable-spokesman-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-myanmar




Date: 17 April 2020
Title: UN Supports Myanmar Nationals Returning from Abroad
Content: 17 April 2020
The United Nations in Myanmar, together with its national and international partners, are working with the relevant government authorities in their efforts to protect the wellbeing of Myanmar nationals returning from other countries and containing the spread of COVID-19 among migrants, their families and their communities.
Close to 46,000 migrant workers, an estimated 35 per cent of whom are women, have returned from abroad as of 16 April, according to official data from the Government of Myanmar. Thousands more are believed to have returned through unofficial border crossings. Many returning migrants face a range of immediate health-related challenges and have substantial humanitarian needs, particularly during the period of quarantine. In addition to public health concerns, the sudden and unplanned return has left many with unresolved labour and psycho-social issues that require immediate assistance, together with significant socio-economic impacts, for example due to the loss of income through remittances.
The United Nations has mounted a collective response and supported the Government to put in place relevant measures to protect their physical and socio-economic well-being, as well as reduce their exposure to COVID-19.
The UN’s International Organization for Migration (IOM), with support from the Livelihoods and Food Security Fund (LIFT), funded by the United Kingdom, the European Union, Switzerland, Australia, the United States of America, Canada and Ireland and managed by United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS), is working closely with the Ministry of Health and Sports and the Ministry of Labour, Immigration and Population, as well as with civil society organizations in Shan, Chin and Mon states, and Ayeyarwady, Magway and Mandalay regions. The initiative is distributing hygiene items and Information, Education and Communication (IEC) materials on COVID-19 and combatting stigma against returning migrants, reaching an estimated 12,500 people so far. Thousands more have benefitted from interventions in other states and regions through efforts by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and other agencies, particularly in the South-East region of Myanmar.
At the end of March, the UNOPS LIFT Fund and its donors mobilized an additional US$1.3 million to support the work of IOM, ILO, BBC Media Action, The Border Consortium and other national and international partners. This initiative strengthens Myanmar’s response to reduce the impact of COVID-19 on vulnerable migrant population across the country. Specifically, efforts under this initiative will prevent the spread of the virus among women and men migrants, their families and their communities; mitigate the social and economic impacts on migrants and their family members experiencing a loss of livelihood; and protect the rights and dignity of migrant workers during the outbreak.
UN Women, through its Safe and Fair joint-project supported by the EU-UN Spotlight Initiative to Eliminate Violence against Women and Girls has partnered with women civil society organizations to support the management of community based quarantine centers in Kayin State. This includes provision of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), adaptation of IEC material to the specific needs of returnee women migrant workers and strengthening of violence against women referral services.
The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) has provided direct support to State Health Departments, by handing over 18 units of heavy-duty washing machines in Kachin State for disinfection of clothes and linen at community-based quarantine facilities. In Bhamo and Lashio, tarpaulins, mosquito nets, sleeping mats and blankets were also provided for 650 people so far. In an effort boost capacity of local authorities to respond to the needs of returning migrants in community quarantine facilities, UNHCR is also scaling up assistance to reach 11,600 people in Kayin, Kayah and Bago East and Tanintharyi regions.
With support from the Government of Japan, IOM is also coordinating with local organizations and the Ministry of Health and Sports to strengthen logistics and procurement of supplies, support disease surveillance for COVID-19 at points of entry and develop and distribute risk communication and community engagement materials.
These interventions in particular have been in support to the work of the Kayin State Health Department, as Kayin is receiving some of the largest influxes of returnees. IOM is also supporting State Health Departments in Kachin, Rakhine and Mon states and the Yangon Regional Health Department by providing critical prevention supplies, such as protective equipment, and hygiene and non-food items for quarantine facilities, such as bedding, towels and mosquito nets.
The Access to Health Fund, funded by the United Kingdom, Sweden, United States and Switzerland and managed by UNOPS, is also supporting the Government with basic health staff surveillance activities at points of entry, as well as contact tracing activities that include returnees. These efforts will ensure that cases are detected early, suspected case properly quarantined and traced, before returns to community.
Through the Myanmar Humanitarian Fund, managed by the UN’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, IOM is also providing support to the Rakhine State Health Department on efforts to coordinate procurement and logistics.
The UNOPS-managed Access to Health Fund supports International Rescue Committee to provide health services in Rakhine, including support to the State Health Department.
The United Nations has supported the Myanmar Government in their efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 and reaffirms its commitment to continue to support these ongoing efforts in every State and Region of the country. Through coordinated response, the United Nations and the Myanmar Government are working to ensure that most vulnerable populations, such as returning migrant workers, are not left behind.
The United Nations in Myanmar reiterates the words of the UN Secretary-General that “we cannot let fear go viral in fight against COVID-19”, stressing the importance of moving forward “with resolve and without stigma.” Only with solidarity and unity can we win this battle.
End.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/41814-un-supports-myanmar-nationals-returning-abroad




Date: 15 April 2020
Title: Protecting the Rights and Opportunities of Women and Girls
Content: 15 April 2020
The COVID-19 pandemic affects everyone, everywhere. But it affects different groups of people differently, deepening existing inequalities. As recently highlighted by the United Nations Secretary-General, the COVID-19 crisis is having a devastating social and economic consequences for women and girls in particular.
Nearly 60 per cent of women globally work in the informal economy, earning less, saving less, and at greater risk of falling into poverty. As markets fall and businesses close, millions of women’s jobs have disappeared. In Myanmar, women represent 60 per cent of the employee engaged in the food and accommodation services, and between 70 to 90 per cent of the street food vendors, while an estimated 789,000 Myanmar women are working overseas for domestic or care work. Close to 35 per cent of the recorded migrant workers who have returned in recent weeks are women. And women constitute the vast majority of Myanmar garment workers, many of whom have already been affected by factory closures.
Women and girls are also at greater risk of experiencing gender-based violence when movement is restricted, livelihoods disrupted and protection systems weaken. This can adversely impact the availability of and accessibility to life-saving sexual and reproductive health services as well as gender-based violence prevention, mitigation and response services, at times when women and girls need these services most. The United Nations and its partners have been working to minimize these risks, through a variety of efforts, and in close coordination with the Government of Myanmar at all levels.
In the first days of social isolation measures in the country, UNFPA and UN Women combined forces to provide training to over 80 social workers of the Department of Social Welfare on the gender dimension of COVID-19 and on psycho-social counselling. Through this effort, 60 new cell phones have been provided to the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement, to ensure that it could ramp up its services and support to people in need across the country.
The United Nations agencies, funds and programmes are focusing on ensuring that women and girls are central to the support to the government response. This involves working with women civil society organizations who are at the frontlines. It also ensures that women impacted in the informal and formal economy, as well as women migrant returnees receive the support they require.
In Myanmar, women represent 75 per cent of the healthcare workers and first responders. While maintaining its support to the Government and the people of Myanmar on development, humanitarian, recovery and peacebuilding efforts, the United Nations also strives to ensure that female frontline health workers, including midwives, traditional birth attendants and nurses across the country have access to critical services, knowledge and protection, without compromising their own health.
At this challenging time, the United Nations pays tribute to the mothers, sisters, healthcare workers, mid-wives and nurses and all women and girls in Myanmar for the important role they play in their communities, reinforcing its commitment to put women and girls at the center of its efforts. The United Nations echoes the words of the Secretary-General that “gender equality and women’s rights are essential to getting through this pandemic together, to recovering faster, and to building a better future for everyone.”
End
အမျိုးသမီး နှင့် မိန်းကလေးငယ်များ၏ အခွင့်အရေးနှင့် အခွင့်အလမ်းများအား ကာကွယ်ပေးခြင်း
ကုလသမဂ္ဂသည် အမျိုးသမီး နှင့် မိန်းကလေးငယ်များ၏ အခွင့်အရေးနှင့် အခွင့်အလမ်းများအား မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတွင် တစ်စတစ်စဖြင့် ပြန့်ပွားလျက်ရှိသော COVID-19 အကြားတွင် အကာအကွယ်ပေးနိုင်ရန် မြန်မာနိုင်ငံအစိုးရနှင့် အတူ လက်တွဲဆောင်ရွက်ပေးရန် ခိုင်မာစွာ ရပ်တည်လျက်ရှိပါသည်။
COVID-19 ကပ်ရောဂါသည် နေရာအားလုံးရှိ လူအားလုံးအပေါ် သက်ရောက်မှုများရှိစေပါသည်။ သို့ပါသော်လည်း COVID-19 သည် နက်ရှိုင်းစွာြင့် တည်ရှိနေသော မတူညီမှုများတွင်အခြေခံကာ မတူညီသော လူ့အုပ်စုများအပေါ် မတူညီသော သက်ရောက်မှုများ ပေးပါသည်။ မကြာသေးမီက ကုလသမဂ္ဂ၏ အတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ် မီးမောင်းထိုးပြခဲ့သလိုပင် COVID-19 ကပ်ကာလသည် အထူးသဖြင့် အမျိုးသမီး နှင့် မိန်းကလေးငယ်များအတွက် ဆိုးရွားသော လူမှုရေး နှင့် စီးပွားရေး အကျိုးဆက်ပေါင်းများစွာ ဖြစ်ပေါ်စေလျက်ရှိပါသည်။
ကမ္ဘာပေါ်ရှိ ၆၀ ရာခိုင်နှုန်းနီးပါးရှိသော အမျိုးသမီးများသည် စာရင်းဇယား အပြင်ဘက် စီးပွားရေးလုပ်ငန်းများတွင် လုပ်ကိုင်လျက်ရှိကြပြီး ၎င်းတို့သည် လျော့နည်းသောလုပ်ခလစာ၊ လျော့နည်းသော စုဆောင်းငွေများသာ ရရှိ၍ ဆင်းရဲနွမ်းပါးသည့် အခြေအနေသို့ ကျရောက်နိုင်ခြေ ပိုမိုများပြားပါသည်။ စျေးကွက်ကျဆင်းခြင်းနှင့် စီးပွားရေးလုပ်ငန်းများ ပိတ်သိမ်းလာသည်နှင့်အမျှ သန်းနှင့်ချီသော အမျိုးသမီးများ၏ အလုပ်အကိုင်များ ပျောက်ဆုံးလျက်ရှိပါသည်။ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတွင် အစားသောက်နှင့် နေရာထိုင်ခင်းဆိုင်ရာ ဝန်ဆောင်မှုလုပ်ငန်းများ တွင်လုပ်ကိုင်ဆောင်ရွက်လျက်ရှိသော အလုပ်သမားများ၏ ၆၀ ရာခိုင်နှုန်းမှာ အမျိုးသမီးများဖြစ်ကြပြီး ပျံကျ စျေးသည်များ၏ ၇၀ မှ ၉၀ ရာခိုင်နှုန်းသည်လည်း အမျိုးသမီးများဖြစ်ကြပါသည်။ ခန့်မှန်းခြေ ၇၈၉,၀၀၀ ရှိသော အမျိုးသမီးများသည် နိုင်ငံရပ်ခြားတွင် အိမ်တွင်း (သို့မဟုတ်) စောင့်ရှောက်ပြုစုခြင်း လုပ်ငန်းများအား လုပ်ကိုင်လျက်ရှိကြပါသည်။ ပြီးခဲ့သောရက်သတ္တပတ်အတွင်း နိုင်ငံအတွင်းသို့ ပြန်လာကြသော တရားဝင် ရွှေ့ပြောင်းအလုပ်သမားများထဲမှ ၃၅ ရာခိုင်နှုန်းနီးပါးသည်လည်း အမျိုးသမီးများ ဖြစ်ကြပါသည်။ ထို့အပြင် မြန်မာနိုင်ငံရှိ အထည်ချုပ်အလုပ်သမား အများစုသည် အမျိုးသမီးများဖြစ်ကြပြီး သူတို့သည် စက်ရုံများ ပိတ်သိမ်းမှုများ၏ သက်ရောက်မှုများကို ကြုံတွေ့နေရပြီး ဖြစ်ပါသည်။
အသွားအလာများ ကန့်သတ်သည့်အခါ၊ စားဝတ်နေရေး ပြတ်တောက်မှုများကြုံတွေ့ရသည့်အခါ နှင့် အကာအကွယ်ပေးမှု စနစ်များ အားလျော့လာသည့် အခါမျိုးတွင်လည်း အမျိုးသမီး နှင့် မိန်းကလေးငယ်များသည့် ကျားမအခြေပြု အကြမ်းဖက်မှုကို ကြုံတွေ့နိုင်ခြေ ပိုမိုများပြားပါသည်။ ဤအခြေအနေများသည် အမျိုးသမီးများနှင့် မိန်းကလေးငယ်များအတွက် လိင်နှင့် မျိုးပွားမှုဆိုင်ရာ ကျန်းမာရေးဝန်ဆောင်မှုများသာမက ကျားမအခြေပြု အကြမ်းဖက်မှုအကာအကွယ်ပေးခြင်း၊ လျော့ချခြင်း နှင့် တုန့်ပြန်ဆောင်ရွက်ပေးခြင်းဆိုင်ရာ ဝန်ဆောင်မှုများကို အလိုအပ်ဆုံးသော အချိန်တွင် ရရှိနိုင်စေရန်နှင့် လက်လှမ်းမီစေရန်တို့အပေါ်တွင် ဆိုးရွားသော သက်ရောက်မှုများ ဖြစ်ပေါ်စေပါသည်။ ကုလသမဂ္ဂ နှင့် မိတ်ဖက် အဖွဲ့အစည်းများသည် ဤအန္တရာယ်များ လျော့နည်းလာစေရန် နည်းမျိုးစုံကြိုးပမ်းအားထုတ်နေသည့်အပြင် မြန်မာနိုင်ငံအစိုးရနှင့် အဆင့်တိုင်းတွင် နီးကပ်စွာ ပူးပေါင်းလုပ်ကိုင်လျက်ရှိပါသည်။
နိုင်ငံအတွင်း လူခြားနေခြင်းများ လုပ်ဆောင်ခြင်းဦးဆုံးနေ့ရက်များတွင် UNFPA နှင့် UN Women တို့ အတူတကွ ပူးပေါင်းပြီး လူမှုဝန်ထမ်း ဦးစီးဌာန၏ ဝန်ထမ်းအယောက် ၈၀ ကျော်ကို COVID-19 နှင့် စပ်လျဥ်းသော ကျားမရှုထောင့်များ နှင့် စိတ်ပိုင်းဆိုင်ရာ၊ လူမှုရေးပိုင်းဆိုင်ရာ ပံ့ပိုးမှုအစရှိ သည့် သင်တန်းများအား ပို့ချပေးခဲ့ပါသည်။ ဤကြိုးစားမှုများမှတဆင့်  နိုင်ငံတဝှမ်းရှိ အကူအညီလိုအပ်နေသူများအတွက် ဝန်ဆောင်မှုများနှင့် ထောက်ပံ့မှုများ ပိုမိုပေးနိုင်ရန်အတွက်  လူမှုဝန်ထမ်း၊ ကယ်ဆယ်ရေးနှင့် ပြည်လည်နေရာချထားရေး ဝန်ကြီးဌာနသို့ လက်ကိုင်ဖုန်း အလုံး ၆၀ ပေးပို့ပေးခဲ့ပါသည်။
ကုလသမဂ္ဂအေဂျင်စီများ၊ ရံပုံငွေများနှင့် အစီအစဥ်များသည် အစိုးရ၏ တုန့်ပြန်ဆောင်ရွက်မှုများကို အထောက်အပံ့ပေးရာတွင် အမျိုးသမီးများနှင့် မိန်းကလေးငယ်များက အဓိကကျသော နေရာမှပါဝင်စေရန် အလေးထားဆောင်ရွက်ပေးလျက်ရှိပါသည်။ ထိုသို့ဆောင်ရွက်ရာတွင် ရှေ့တန်းမှ လုပ်ကိုင်ဆောင်ရွက်နေသော အမျိုးသမီး လူမှု အသင်းအဖွဲ့များဖြင့် ပူးပေါင်းလုပ်ကိုင်ခြင်းများ ပါဝင်ပါသည်။ ဤဆောင်ရွက်ချက်များသည် စာရင်းဇယား အတွင်းနှင့် အပြင်ဘက် စီးပွားရေးများ၏ သက်ရောက်မှုများ ကြုံတွေ့နေသော အမျိုးသမီးများနှင့် အမျိူးသမီး ရွှေ့ပြောင်း အလုပ်သမားများအတွက် လိုအပ်နေသော ထောက်ပံ့မှုများရရှိစေပါသည်။
မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတွင် ကျန်းမာရေးဝန်ထမ်းများနှင့် ရှေ့တန်းကတုန့်ပြန်ဆောင်ရွက်သူများ၏ ၇၅ ရာခိုင်နှုန်းမှာ အမျိူးသမီးများ ဖြစ်ကြပါသည်။ အစိုးရနှင့် မြန်မာနိုင်ငံအတွင်းရှိ ပြည်သူများအား ဖွံ့ဖြိုးမှု၊ လူသားချင်းစာနာမှု၊ ပြန်လည်ထူထောင်ရေးနှင့် ငြိမ်းချမ်းရေး ကြိုးပမ်းအားထုတ်မှုများတွင် အထောက်အပံ့များဆက်လက်ပေးရင်း ကုလသမဂ္ဂသည် နိုင်ငံတစ်ဝှမ်းရှိ သားဖွားဆရာများ၊ အရပ်လက်သည်များနှင့် သူနာပြုဆရာမများပါဝင်သော  ရှေ့တန်းမှ အမျိုးသမီး ကျန်းမာရေးဝန်ထမ်းများအား အရေးကြီးသော ဝန်ဆောင်မှုများ၊ အသိပညာများနှင့် အကာအကွယ်များအား သူတို့၏အသက်ကို အထိအခိုက်မဖြစ်စေဘဲ ရရှိစေရန် ကြိုးပမ်းဆောင်ရွက်လျက်ရှိပါသည်။
ယခုကဲ့သို့သော စိန်ခေါ်မှုများသောအချိန်တွင် ကုလသမဂ္ဂသည် မြန်မာနိုင်ငံရှိ အသိုက်အဝန်းများအတွင်း မိမိကျရာကဏ္ဍတွင် တက်ကြွစွာပါဝင်လုပ်ကိုင်နေကြသော အမေများ၊ ညီအမများ၊ ကျန်းမာရေးဝန်ထမ်းများ၊ သားဖွားဆရာမများ၊ သူနာပြုဆရာမများ၊ အားလုံးသော အမျိူးသမီးများနှင့် မိန်းကလေးငယ်များအား ချီးကျူးဂုဏ်ပြုရင်း ကုလသမဂ္ဂ၏ ကြိုးစားအားထုတ်မှုများတွင် အမျိုးသမီးများနှင့် မိန်းကလေးငယ်များအား ဗဟိုပြုဆောင်ရွက်သွားမည်ဖြစ်ပါသည်။  ကုလသမဂ္ဂအနေဖြင့် အထွေထွေအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်မှ ပြောကြားသော စကားဖြစ်သည့် “ဤကပ်ရောဂါအား ကျော်ဖြတ်ရာတွင် အလျင်အမြန် ပြန်လည်ထူထောင်ရေးနှင့် ပိုမို၍ကောင်းမွန်သော အနာဂတ်တစ်ခုအား အားလုံးအတွက် တည်ဆောက်ရာတွင် ကျားမတန်းတူညီမျှမှုနှင့် အမျိုးသမီး အခွင့်အရေးသည် လွန်စွာအရေးကြီးကြောင်း” ကို ထပ်လောင်းထင်ဟပ်လိုက်ပါသည်။

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/41077-protecting-rights-and-opportunities-women-and-girls




Date: 14 April 2020
Title: Over 20,000 Kits Arrive in Myanmar to Boost Testing Capacity
Content: 14 April 2020
This support includes procurement of test kits, personal protective equipment, specialized medical equipment, and the expansion of health and quarantine facility capacities; strengthening planning and coordination, resource mobilization as well as direct engagement and support in awareness raising and promotion of hygiene among the population.
The Access to Health Fund, managed by the United Nations Office for Project Services, UNOPS, together with the Good Neighbors International have supported the National Health Laboratory (NHL) with much-needed testing equipment. A total of US$700,000 has been mobilized to procure the necessary equipment to conduct 20,000 tests for COVID-19.  This equipment includes 5,000 real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) tests and 10,000 viral transport media tubes which arrived in Myanmar recently. Within the next 24 hours, the UNOPS Access to Health Fund is set to also deliver another 150,000 surgical gloves and 500,000 surgical masks to the Ministry of Health and Sports to support health workers in Myanmar.
“We are pleased to be able to support the Government of Myanmar in its efforts to increase testing capacities, which is essential to containing this virus,” said Mr. Ola Almgren, the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator.
" The National Health Laboratory has a critical role in finding and isolating cases, supporting treatment and breaking the chain of transmission,” said Mr. Oren Ginzburg, Fund Director of the Access to Health Fund. “On behalf of our donors - the United Kingdom, Sweden, United States and Switzerland - we are happy to be able to play a role in the Government’s efforts to protect the people of Myanmar."
End

ရောဂါစမ်းသပ်မှုမြှင့်တင်ဆောင်ရွက်ရန် စမ်းသပ်ကိရိယာ ၂၀,၀၀၀ ကျော်ရောက်ရှိ
ကုလသမဂ္ဂအဖွဲ့အစည်းများ၊ ရန်ပုံငွေပေးရေးနှင့် အကူအညီပေးရေးအစီအစဉ်များသည် ပြည်တွင်းနှင့် နိုင်ငံတကာ မိတ်ဖက်အဖွဲ့အစည်းများနှင့်အတူ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံရှိ COVID-19 ရောဂါကာကွယ်ထိန်းချုပ်ရေး ကြိုးပမ်းမှု များ၌ ကျန်းမာရေးအာဏာပိုင်များအား စဉ်ဆက်မပြတ်ကူညီပံ့ပိုးပေးလျက်ရှိပါသည်။
ဤသို့ကူညီပံ့ပိုးရာ၌ စီမံရေးနှင့်ညှိနှိုင်းဆောင်ရွက်ခြင်း၊ အရင်းအမြစ်များစုစည်းခြင်းအပြင် လူထုအကြား အသိပညာပေးခြင်းနှင့် တကိုယ်ရေသန့်ရှင်းမှုမြှင့်တင်ခြင်းများ၌ တိုက်ရိုက်ပါဝင်ပံ့ပိုးကူညီခြင်းများကို ပိုမိုခိုင်မာ စေလျက် စမ်းသပ်ကိရိယာများ၊ တစ်ကိုယ်ရေကာကွယ်ရေးဝတ်စုံများ၊ ဆေးနှင့်ဆေးပစ္စည်းများရရှိရေးနှင့် ကျန်းမာရေးနှင့်အသွားအလာကန့်သတ်မှုဌာနဆိုင်ရာစနစ်များ တိုးချဲ့ခြင်းများ ပါဝင်ပါသည်။
ကုလသမဂ္ဂ စီမံကိန်းလုပ်ငန်းများဆိုင်ရာရုံး (UNOPS) က စီမံဆောင်ရွက်သည့် ‘ကျန်းမာရေးစောင့်ရှောက်မှု လက်လှမ်းမီရရှိရေးရန်ပုံငွေ’ (Access to Health Fund)  သည် Good Neighbors International နှင့်အတူ အမျိုးသား ကျန်းမာရေးဓာတ်ခွဲမှုဆိုင်ရာဌာနထံသို့ များစွာလိုအပ်လျက်ရှိသော ရောဂါစမ်းသပ်ပစ္စည်းကိရိယာများ ကူညီပံ့ပိုး ပေးထားပါသည်။ COVID-19 ရောဂါစမ်းသပ်မှု ကြိမ်ရေ ၂၀,၀၀၀ လုပ်ဆောင်ရန် လိုအပ်သည့်ပစ္စည်းများ ရရှိရေးအတွက် စုစုပေါင်း အမေရိကန်ဒေါ်လာ ၇၀၀,၀၀၀ ကို ရန်ပုံငွေရယူပေးထားပါသည်။ ဤပစ္စည်းများတွင်  မကြာသေးမီက မြန်မာနိုင်ငံသို့ရောက်ရှိခဲ့သော Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) စမ်းသပ်ပစ္စည်း ၅,၀၀၀ နှင့် Viral Transport Media Tubes ဖန်ပြွန် ၁၀,၀၀၀ တို့ပါဝင်ပါသည်။ လာမည့် ၂၄ နာရီအတွင်း UNOPS Access to Health Fund သည် ခွဲစိတ်ခန်းသုံးလက်အိတ် ၁၅၀,၀၀၀ နှင့် ခွဲစိတ်ခန်းသုံးနှာခေါင်းစည်း ၅၀၀,၀၀၀ တို့ကို လည်း မြန်မာနိုင်ငံရှိ ကျန်းမာရေးဝန်ထမ်းများအတွက် ကျန်းမာရေးနှင့်အားကစားဝန်ကြီးဌာနထံသို့ ပေးအပ်သွား မည်ဖြစ်ပါသည်။
‌“ရောဂါစမ်းသပ်မှုမြှင့်တင်ဆောင်ရွက်ရေးကြိုးပမ်းမှုမှာ ပြည်ထောင်စုမြန်မာနိုင်ငံအစိုးရကို အကူအညီပေး ခွင့်ရတဲ့အတွက် ဝမ်းမြောက်မိပါတယ်။ ဒါဟာ ဗိုင်းရပ်စ်ကိုထိန်းချုပ်ဖို့အတွက် မရှိမဖြစ်လိုအပ်ပါတယ်” ဟု မြန်မာနိုင်ငံရှိ ကုလသမဂ္ဂဌာနေကိုယ်စားလှယ်နှင့် လူသားချင်းစာနာမှုဆိုင်ရာညှိနှိုင်းရေးတာဝန်ခံ မစ္စတာ Ola Almgren က ပြောကြားခဲ့သည်။
“အမျိုးသားကျန်းမာရေးဓာတ်ခွဲမှုဆိုင်ရာဌာနဟာ ကုသရေးနဲ့ ရောဂါကူးစက်ပြန့်ပွားမှုကွင်းဆက်ကို ဖြတ်တောက် ရာမှာ အထောက်အကူပြုနေပြီး ရောဂါရှာဖွေရေးနဲ့ သီးခြားထားရှိကုသရေးတို့အတွက် အလွန်အရေးပါတဲ့အခန်း ကဏ္ဍမှာရှိနေပါတယ်” ဟု ကျန်းမာရေးစောင့်ရှောက်မှု လက်လှမ်းမီရရှိရေးရန်ပုံငွေ၏ ရန်ပုံငွေဒါရိုက်တာ မစ္စတာ Oren Ginzburg ကပြောကြားခဲ့သည်။ “အလှူရှင်နိုင်ငံတွေဖြစ်ကြတဲ့ ယူနိုက်တက်ကင်းဒမ်း၊ ဆွီဒင်၊ အမေရိကန်ပြည် ထောင်စုနဲ့ ဆွစ်ဇာလန်တို့ရဲ့ကိုယ်စား မြန်မာနိုင်ငံသူနိုင်ငံသားတွေကို ကာကွယ်စောင့်ရှောက်ဖို့ အစိုးရရဲ့ကြိုးပမ်း ဆောင်ရွက်မှုမှာ အခုလိုပါဝင်ခွင့်ရတဲ့အတွက် ဝမ်းသာမိပါတယ်” ဟု မစ္စတာ Oren Ginzburg ကပြောခဲ့သည်။

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/40938-over-20000-kits-arrive-myanmar-boost-testing-capacity




Date: 10 April 2020
Title: Collective Support To Communities In Rakhine To Fight COVID-19
Content: 10 April 2020

(Myanmar text below)
The United Nations agencies, funds and programmes as well as national and international organizations continue to scale-up their full-fledged support to the Government and people of Myanmar to contain the spread of COVID-19 in every State and Region, including to the most vulnerable populations such as returning migrants and internally displaced persons (IDPs).
In recent weeks, the UN agencies, together with partners, have been working tirelessly to contribute to the prevention of COVID-19, through areas and sectors such as health, water, sanitation and hygiene, food and livelihoods, gender equality and the empowerment of women and migration. While maintaining critical humanitarian and recovery operations to reach vulnerable communities and internally displaced persons, the UN agencies and their partners have provided emergency hygiene and health supplies, improved safe access to basic water and sanitation facilities and continue to raise awareness among communities and IDPs about the risks of COVID-19.
The Livelihoods and Food Security Fund (LIFT) has allocated over US$2.2 million to its front-line response efforts to prevent and contain the spread of COVID-19 in Rakhine State. Implemented by local and international partners, LIFT’s response provides access to clean water and sanitation facilities to vulnerable communities and IDPs, in coordination with the relevant government authorities. LIFT is funded by seven member states, and managed by the United Nations Office for Project Services, UNOPS.
The United Nations Children’s Fund, UNICEF, continues to work with local actors, international partners and local governments to enable access to clean water in camps for the internally displaced. In the first quarter of 2020, UNICEF and partners distributed over 23,500 hygiene items to more than 50,000 people in Rakhine State. Over 130 latrines have been constructed and another 390 latrines are underway. In Sittwe, to increase public awareness about COVID-19, UNICEF has provided 7,000 posters and set up a Light Emitting Diode (LED) display board to share updated information on the risks.
In Buthidaung Township, the United Nations Population Fund, UNFPA, distributed dignity kits, with basic hygiene supplies, including soaps and sanitizers, to women and girls, while the United Nations Human Settlements Programme, UN-Habitat, in partnership with local community groups, has installed a network of public hand-washing stations and distributed Information Educational and Communication (IEC) materials to promote awareness on hand-washing and hygiene across the Sittwe Township. The United Nations Refugee Agency, UNHCR and partners have made an incredible effort in bringing the key messages on COVID-19 to communities in IDP camps and sites sheltering newly displaced as well as villages. A total of 20 IDP camps, 76 displacement sites and over 100 villages have been reached to date.
“In this challenging time for all of us, I am proud of the unity and dedication shown among the United Nations, the international community, local organizations and communities and the government authorities to mount a collective response,” said the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Mr. Ola Almgren. “I am also thankful to our donors who continue to maintain and strengthen their support to our operations,” said Mr. Almgren, adding that response to the outbreak of COVID-19 requires everybody to come together more than ever. “Solidarity is the only way we can win this battle”.
End

COVID-19 တိုက်ဖျက်ရေးဆောင်ရွက်နေသော ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်ရှိလူထုအတွက် UN ၏ စုပေါင်းအကူအညီ
၂၀၂၀ ခုနှစ်၊ ဧပြီလ ၁၀ ရက် -  နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာရွှေ့ပြောင်းလာရသူများ၊ မိမိနိုင်ငံသို့ပြန်လာသော‌ရွှေ့ပြောင်းသူများအစရှိသည့် ထိခိုက်နစ်နာလွယ်သူ အသိုင်းအဝိုင်းများအပါအဝင် ပြည်နယ်နှင့် တိုင်းအသီးသီးတွင် COVID-19 ကပ်ရောဂါဖြစ်ပွားခြင်းကို တားဆီး ကာကွယ်တုန့်ပြန်နေသည့် မြန်မာအစိုးရနှင့် ပြည်သူများ၏ ကြိုးပမ်းမှုများကို ပြည်တွင်းနှင့် နိုင်ငံတကာအဖွဲ့အစည်း များနှင့်အတူ ကုလသမဂ္ဂအေဂျင်စီများ၊ ရံပုံငွေနှင့် အစီအစဉ်များမှ အင်တိုက်အားတိုက်ကူညီနေပါသည်။
ပြီးခဲ့သောရက်သတ္တပတ်များကပင် ကျန်းမာရေး၊ ရေနှင့်မိလ္လာစနစ်၊ တစ်ကိုယ်ရေသန့်ရှင်းရေး၊ စားနပ်ရိက္ခာနှင့် အသက်မွေးဝမ်းကျောင်း၊ ကျားမတန်းတူရေး၊ အမျိုးသမီးများခေါင်းဆောင်မှုစွမ်းရည်မြင့်မားရေး၊ ‌ရွှေ့ပြောင်းနေထိုင်မှု ကဏ္ဍများမှဆင့် ကုလသမဂ္ဂအေဂျင်စီများ၊ မိတ်ဖက်များသည် COVID-19 တားဆီးကာကွယ်ရေးအတွက် အတူပူးပေါင်းလုပ်ဆောင်ခဲ့ကြပါသည်။ ထိခိုက်နစ်နာလွယ်သူများနှင့် နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာသူများအတွက် အရေးကြီး လူသားချင်းစာနာမှုနှင့် ပြန်လည်ကုစားပေးသည့်လုပ်ငန်းများကို ဆောင်ရွက်ရင်း ကုလသမဂ္ဂအေဂျင်စီများ၊ မိတ်ဖက်များသည် အရေးပေါ်တစ်ကိုယ်ရေသန့်ရှင်းရေးနှင့်ကျန်းမာရေးထောက်ပံ့ပစ္စည်းများ၊ အခြေခံရေနှင့် ပိုမိုကောင်းမွန်သော မိလ္လာစနစ်ကို လက်လှမ်းမီစေမည့်လုပ်ငန်းများကို ပံ့ပိုးပေးခဲ့ပါသည်။ ဆက်လက်၍ လူထုအတွင်းနှင့် နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာလာသူများအကြား COVID-19 အန္တရာယ်အသိပညာပေးခြင်းများကိုလည်း ဆောင်ရွက်နေပါသည်။
ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်တွင် COVID-19 ပြန့်ပွားမှုကို ကာကွယ်တားဆီးတုန့်ပြန်ခြင်းအတွက် Livelihoods and Food Security Fund (LIFT) မှ အမေရိကန်ဒေါ်လာ ၂.၂ သန်းကျော် ချမှတ်သုံးစွဲသွားမည်ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ LIFT ၏တုန့်ပြန်မှုအစီအစဉ်ကို ဒေသခံနှင့် နိုင်ငံတကာမိတ်ဖက်များမှ ဖော်ဆောင်မည်ဖြစ်ကာ ထိခိုက်နစ်နာလွယ်သူများနှင့် နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာသူများအတွက် သန့်ရှင်းသောရေနှင့် ပိုမိုကောင်းမွန်သောမိလ္လာစနစ်ရရှိအောင်ကြိုးပမ်းကြမည်ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ LIFT ကို ကုလသမဂ္ဂအဖွဲ့ဝင်နိုင်ငံ ၇ နိုင်ငံမှ ထောက်ပံ့ပေးပြီး United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) မှ စီမံခန့်ခွဲနေပါသည်။
ယာယီစခန်းများအတွင်း သန့်ရှင်းသောရေရရှိနိုင်ရန် ဒေသတွင်းရှိ အစိုးရဌာနများ၊ ပြည်တွင်းအဖွဲ့အစည်းများ၊ အပြည်ပြည်ဆိုင်ရာမိတ်ဖက်များနှင့်အတူ ကုလသမဂ္ဂကလေးများရံပုံငွေ (UNICEF) မှ ဆက်လက် လုပ်ဆောင်နေပါသည်။ ၂၀၂၀ ခုနှစ် ပထမသုံးလအတွင်း ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်ရှိ လူပေါင်း ၅၀,၀၀၀ ကျော်အတွက် တစ်ကိုယ်ရေသုံးပစ္စည်း ၂၃,၅၀၀ ကို UNICEF နှင့်မိတ်ဖက်အဖွဲ့များက ပံ့ပိုးပေးနိုင်ခဲ့ပါသည်။ ထို့ပြင်အိမ်သာအလုံး ၁၃၀ ကျော် ဆောက်လုပ်ပေးခဲ့ရုံမျှမက နောက်ထပ် ၃၉၀ ကျော်ကို ဆက်လက်ဆောက်လုပ်သွားမည်ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ စစ်တွေမြို့တွင်း၌ ပိုစတာပေါင်း ၇,၀၀၀ ကျော်နှင့် LED ဘုတ်တို့ကို အသုံးပြုကာ COVID-19 အန္တရာယ်အသိပညာ ပေးခဲ့ပါသည်။
ဆပ်ပြာ၊ လက်သန့်စင်ဆေးရည်အပါအဝင် တစ်ကိုယ်ရေသုံးပစ္စည်းများကို ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်၊ ဘူးသီးတောင်မြို့နယ်ရှိ အမျိုးသမီးများအတွက် ကုလသမဂ္ဂလူဦးရေ ရန်ပုံငွေအဖွဲ့ (UNFPA) မှလည်း ဖြန့်ဖြူးပေးခဲ့သည့်အပြင် ဒေသခံ လူထုအဖွဲ့အစည်းများနှင့်အတူ UN-Habitat မှလည်း လက်ဆေးစင်များကို စစ်တွေမြို့အတွင်းမှာ ဆောက်လုပ်ပေးခဲ့ကာ လက်နှင့်တစ်ကိုယ်ရေသန့်ရှင်းရေးအသိပညာပေးလက်ကမ်းစာစောင်များ ဖြန့်ဝေပေးခဲ့ပါသည်။ ကုလသမဂ္ဂ ဒုက္ခသည်များဆိုင်ရာမဟာမင်းကြီးရုံး (UNHCR) နှင့် မိတ်ဖက်များက ရွှေ့ပြောင်းနေထိုင်ရာစခန်း၊ ယာယီနေရာနှင့် ကျေးရွာများတွင် နေထိုင်နေကြရသည့် နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာလာသူများကို COVID-19 နှင့်ပတ်သက်သော အရေးကြီး သတင်းစကားများကိုလည်း မျှဝေခဲ့ပါသည်။ ထိုသို့ဆောင်ရွက်ရာတွင် ယခုအချိန်အထိ ရွှေ့ပြောင်းနေထိုင်ရာ စခန်း ၂၀၊ ယာယီနေရာ ၇၆ ခုနှင့် ကျေးရွာပေါင်း ၁၀၀ ကျော်သို့တိုင် သတင်းအချက်အလက်များ ပါးနိုင်ခဲ့ပါသည်။
အားလုံးအတွက် ယခုလိုခက်ခဲသောအချိန်မှာ ကုလသမဂ္ဂအဖွဲ့အစည်း၊ နိုင်ငံတကာနှင့်ဒေသခံအဖွဲ့အစည်းများ၊ လူထု အသိုင်းအဝိုင်းများအကြား စည်းစည်းလုံးလုံးညီညီညွတ်ညွတ်နဲ့  စုပေါင်းတုန့်ပြန်နေကြသည်ကို မြင်တွေ့ရသဖြင့် ဂုဏ်ယူမိပါကြောင်း မြန်မာနိုင်ငံရှိ ကုလသမဂ္ဂ၏ဌာနေကိုယ်စားလှယ်/လူသားချင်းစာနာထောက်ထားမှုညှိနှိုင်းရေး တာဝန်ခံ Mr. Ola Almgren မှ ပြောကြားခဲ့ပါသည်။ ဆက်လက်၍ Mr. Almgren က လုပ်ငန်းများဆက်လက် လုပ်ကိုင်နိုင်စေဖို့ ပံ့ပိုးပေးကြသည့် အလှူရှင်များကို ကျေးဇူးတင်ရှိပါကြောင်း၊ ပူးပေါင်းဆောင်ရွက်မှသာလျှင် အောင်မြင်နိုင်ကြောင်းနှင့် COVID-19 ကပ်ရောဂါကို တုန့်ပြန်တိုက်ထုတ်ရာတွင် အားလုံးပူးပေါင်းကာ ဆောင်ရွက်ရမည်ကို ထည့်သွင်းပြောကြားခဲ့ပါသည်။

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/40752-collective-support-communities-rakhine-fight-covid-19




Date: 09 April 2020
Title: UNFPA provides psychosocial support online training for Government’s case managers in response to COVID -19 outbreak
Content: 09 April 2020
As a part of the UN response to COVID-19 outbreak in Myanmar, UNFPA conducted online training for Government staff to strengthen their capacity in providing basic psychosocial support for gender-based violence survivors and sessions on mental health and psychosocial-related topics for the community on 7 April 2020. 90 case managers of Department of Social Welfare (DSW) from all states and regions participated and benefited from this online training.
Mental Health and Psychosocial support (MHPSS) has a significant impact upon improving the wellbeing of people, promoting healing and cohesion. Especially in emergency situation like COVID-19 pandemic, it is important to ensure the psychological wellbeing of groups at risk such as women, girls, youth and adolescent. As UNFPA works to empower young people, women and girls and to support comprehensive healing and reintegration of GBV survivors, mental health and psycho social support is an integral part of UNFPA's programming for GBV prevention and response.
As a result of this training, the case managers will be able to provide initial response for the community including GBV survivors, during COVID-19. Moreover, they will be equipped to conduct sessions for the community regarding psychosocial impact of COVID-19 and how to deal with it.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/40516-unfpa-provides-psychosocial-support-online-training-government%E2%80%99s-case-managers-response-covid




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: World Health Day - Statement By United Nations (Myanmar Text Below)
Content: 07 April 2020
On World Health Day, the United Nations in Myanmar expresses its appreciation to nurses, midwifes, doctors, paramedics and all other healthcare professionals in Myanmar. Their tireless efforts are especially significant in the face of the evolving spread of COVID-19 in Myanmar.
“This year’s celebration comes at a very difficult time,” said Mr. Ola Almgren, the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar. “When the humanity is facing one of its greatest challenges, it is the nurses, midwifes, doctors and other health professionals who are on the frontlines in Myanmar and around the world,” said Mr. Almgren. “The United Nations expresses its deep gratitude for their courage and professionalism. Thank you for the work you do!”.
“There is no better time than today – World Health Day - to come together and be united to support our frontline health workers, including nurses and midwives. The day marks the International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife corresponding to 200th anniversary of Florence Nightingale” said Dr. Stephan Paul Jost, World Health Organization Representative to Myanmar. “Nurses and midwives are central to delivery of quality healthcare services in every country, including Myanmar.”.
Despite the challenges, nurses, midwives, indeed all health workers in all sectors, are working around the clock to prevent and respond to COVID-19. “We owe them a very big thank you, because without them there would be no response. Supporting and protecting all our health workers everywhere is essential to face this unprecedented challenge,” added Dr. Jost, calling for even greater solidarity and support to Myanmar’s comprehensive prevention and response efforts.
The United Nations’ commitment for solidarity and support remains unwavering. Over the past few weeks, the United Nations agencies, funds and programmes in Myanmar have urgently mobilized additional support to increase testing capacities, and efforts to prevent and respond to the virus. The United Nations and partners are also working with health officials and communities across Myanmar every day to raise awareness about the risks of transmission, promote good hygiene and social distancing and support frontline healthcare workers.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/40264-world-health-day-statement-united-nations-myanmar-text-below




Date: 06 April 2020
Title: The Secretary-General -- Statement on Gender-Based Violence and COVID19
Content: 06 April 2020
New York, April 2020
The COVID-19 pandemic is causing untold human suffering and economic devastation around the world.
I recently called for an immediate global ceasefire to focus on our shared struggle to overcome the pandemic.
I appealed for an end to violence everywhere, now.
But violence is not confined to the battlefield.
For many women and girls, the threat looms largest where they should be safest.
In their own homes.
And so I make a new appeal today for peace at home — and in homes — around the world.
We know lockdowns and quarantines are essential to suppressing COVID-19. But they can trap women with abusive partners.
Over the past weeks as economic and social pressures and fear have grown, we have seen a horrifying global surge in domestic violence.
In some countries, the number of women calling support services has doubled.
Meanwhile, healthcare providers and police are overwhelmed and understaffed.
Local support groups are paralyzed or short of funds. Some domestic violence shelters are closed; others are full.
I urge all governments to make the prevention and redress of violence against women a key part of their national response plans for COVID-19.
That means increasing investment in online services and civil society organizations.
Making sure judicial systems continue to prosecute abusers.
Setting up emergency warning systems in pharmacies and groceries.
Declaring shelters as essential services.
And creating safe ways for women to seek support, without alerting their abusers.
Women’s rights and freedoms are essential to strong, resilient societies.
Together, we can and must prevent violence everywhere, from war zones to people’s homes, as we work to beat COVID-19.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/40111-secretary-general-statement-gender-based-violence-and-covid19




Date: 06 April 2020
Title: UN to Support Healthcare Workers in Myanmar
Content: 06 April 2020
Further progress is being made by the United Nations in its commitment to support the Government and the people of Myanmar in efforts to contain the evolving spread of COVID-19 across the country.
The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS), through the multi-donor funded Access to Health Fund, will provide 50,000 sets of coveralls to the Ministry of Health and Sports. This is a vital part of the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) pack, crucial to protecting healthcare workers who are at the forefront of the COVID-19 response. The coveralls are expected to be distributed to the frontline healthcare workers at state and regional levels, as well as to community-based organizations and ethnic health organizations.
“Healthcare workers in Myanmar and across the world continue to come face-to-face with this virus. Ensuring their safety and protection is of utmost importance,” said the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar, Mr. Ola Almgren. “On behalf of the United Nations, I express my deepest appreciation to all healthcare workers in Myanmar for their dedication and commitment. Their heroic actions are saving lives every day,” said Mr. Almgren.
The Access to Health Fund is in process of delivering other PPE items, including nitrile and surgical gloves, shoe covers, N95 masks and surgical masks. This is in addition to the efforts of other United Nations agencies, funds and programmes who continue to work hand-in-hand with the relevant Government entities to prevent and contain the spread of the virus in Myanmar.
“The United Nations supports the measures that have been taken by the Government of Myanmar to date in its efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19,” said Mr. Almgren, adding that early measures, such as testing, tracing contacts and isolation are important in containing the spread. “In the face of this unprecedented crisis, everyone is vulnerable. We can only defeat this virus when we work together and we are united.”.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/40126-un-support-healthcare-workers-myanmar




Date: 03 April 2020
Title: WFP reaches displaced people in Paletwa Township, Chin State while many more remain cutoff and in need of urgent food assistance
Content: 03 April 2020
“Thanks to the support of the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement and the Chin State Government, WFP food has reached communities in Samee,” said Stephen Anderson, WFP’s Country Director in Myanmar. “Priority now is to provide lifesaving assistance to people affected by conflict in other parts of southern Chin State, including those in and around Paletwa Town. We continue to appeal to all parties to grant WFP and our partners access so that we can reach those who need our support.”
This emergency relief assistance, consisting of rice, pulses, oil, salt along with kitchen utensils, will sustain 2,600 displaced people for two months. WFP also plans to ensure the provision of nutritious blended food to help children and mothers facing malnutrition.
WFP has also been trying to reach communities affected in Paletwa Town and will continue to explore all options to so that they can also be reached with lifesaving aid.
For the past few months, many people in Paletwa Township, which is located on the border with Rakhine and Chin states, have been living with food shortages and price hikes. Intensified fighting has resulted in trade and supply routes being cut off and fresh displacement of people as families are forced to flee, leaving their homes, land and livelihood behind.
Funded entirely on voluntary contributions, WFP is currently delivering emergency food aid to people affected by conflict and facing high food insecurity. This includes 270,000 people in Rakhine State, 47,000 people in Kachin State and 15,000 in Shan State. The operation in Rakhine has expanded lately to assist the new needs due to the ongoing armed conflict.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/40102-wfp-reaches-displaced-people-paletwa-township-chin-state-while-many-more-remain-cutoff-and




Date: 02 April 2020
Title: UN to Support Yangon Health Department to Tackle COVID-19
Content: 02 April 2020
The United Nations continues to scale-up its support to the Ministry of Health and Sports and relevant departments of Government of Myanmar in the wake of the rapidly evolving COVID-19 pandemic.
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the World Health Organization (WHO), together with International Organization for Migration (IOM) and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) have mounted a collective effort to support the Health and Sports Ministry’s Regional Department in Yangon.
More than 5,000 sets of basic items, including bed linen, mattresses, blankets, kitchen utensils and mosquito nets, as well as sets of hygiene items urgently needed at quarantine facilities, will soon be sent to the Yangon Regional Health Department. This support will also be complemented by WFP’s plans to support the people in quarantine facilities in Yangon with food assistance.
“The United Nations fully supports the efforts of the Government of Myanmar to prevent, contain and respond to the threat of this pandemic” said Ola Almgren, the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar. “Five UN agencies, funds and programmes coming together in support of Yangon Health Department demonstrates our collective commitment to continue working with the Government at all levels to fight the battle against COVID-19” said Mr. Almgren, adding that the United Nations appreciates the partnership with the Government of Myanmar.
The support comes in addition to earlier announced plans by the United Nations to send 50,000 test kits to the Ministry of Health and Sports. United Nations specialized agencies, funds and programmes continue to coordinate joint efforts on a daily basis to prevent and respond to the outbreak in Myanmar.
“This is a difficult moment not only for the people of Myanmar, but also for billions of people around the world” said Mr. Almgren, noting that the virus is rapidly spreading across over 170 countries. “I reiterate the words of the United Nations Secretary-General that we are in this together – and we will get through this, together.”.
End

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/39725-un-support-yangon-health-department-tackle-covid-19




Date: 30 March 2020
Title: UN to Send 50,000 More Test Kits to Myanmar
Content: 30 March 2020
The United Nations is working in close consultation with the Union Ministry of Health and Sports, and other Government authorities, to define areas of support in relation to the prevention and control of infection, including the procurement of personal protective equipment, specialized medical equipment, and the expansion of health facility capacities.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has called upon all nations to urgently increase COVID-19 testing. The United Nations in Myanmar is now in the process of purchasing 50,000 COVID-19 testing kits for the National Health Laboratory (NHL). This total reflects the combined support of UNOPS, UNICEF, WFP and UNHCR, and builds upon earlier support provided by WHO and partners which gave 3,000 testing kits to the NHL.
“The UN remains committed to continue providing support to Government’s efforts to scale-up testing,” said Ola Almgren, the UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar. “Testing is essential to allowing the Government to rapidly identify cases of COVID-19, and help contain the spread of the virus,” Mr. Almgren said, adding that the UN stands ready to procure more test kits and support the planning, carrying out and analysis of the testing as required by the Government.
“The United Nations is fully committed to support the efforts of the Government to contain this threat as well as to continue its work as a partner in humanitarian action, development assistance and peacebuilding unabated”, said Mr. Almgren, noting the UN’s readiness to work with the Government to accelerate COVID-19 prevention and response planning across all of Myanmar.
Mr. Almgren noted that very difficult experiences occurring across the world have underlined the utter importance of timely and decisive steps to contain the spread of COVID-19. “In these challenging times, the UN in Myanmar remains in solidarity with all people of Myanmar, across all areas.”

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/39432-un-send-50000-more-test-kits-myanmar




Date: 28 March 2020
Title: UN staff member in Myanmar tests positive for COVID - 19
Content: 28 March 2020
The staff member had been in self-quarantine since the return as a precaution.  As the staff member began to experience symptoms consistent with Covid-19, the staff member was taken to and isolated in a designated public hospital where the test was taken.  The United Nations expresses its deepest appreciation to the Government of Myanmar for its support and to the hospital staff for the warm and professional care they are extending towards our colleague, who we hope will soon be on the path to full recovery.
The United Nations is fully committed to supporting national efforts to prevent the spread of the virus in Myanmar and to strengthening the national capacity to manage cases as they occur, as well as the broader impact of COVID-19.  In these challenging times, we continue our work as a partner to Myanmar in humanitarian action, development assistance and peacebuilding unabated. End.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/39251-un-staff-member-myanmar-tests-positive-covid-19




Date: 26 March 2020
Title: No exceptions with COVID-19: “Everyone has the right to life-saving interventions” – UN experts say
Content: 26 March 2020
GENEVA (26 March 2020) – The COVID-19 crisis cannot be solved with public health and emergency measures only; all other human rights must be addressed too, UN human rights experts* said today.
“Everyone, without exception, has the right to life-saving interventions and this responsibility lies with the government. The scarcity of resources or the use of public or private insurance schemes should never be a justification to discriminate against certain groups of patients,” the experts said. “Everybody has the right to health.
“People with disabilities, older persons, minority communities, indigenous peoples, internally displaced people, people affected by extreme poverty and living in overcrowded settings, people who live in residential institutions, people in detention, homeless people, migrants and refugees, people who use drugs, LGBT and gender diverse persons – these and other groups need to receive support from governments.
“Advances in biomedical sciences are very important to realize the right to health. But equally important are all human rights. The principles of non-discrimination, participation, empowerment and accountability need to be applied to all health-related policies.”
The UN experts supported the measures recommended by the WHO to defeat the pandemic. They called on States to act with determination to provide the needed resources to all sectors of public health systems – from prevention and detection to treatment and recovery.
“But addressing this crisis is more than that. States must take additional social protection measures so that their support reaches those who are at most risk of being disproportionately affected by the crisis,” they stressed.
“That includes women, who are already at a disadvantaged socio-economic position, bear an even heavier care burden, and live with a heightened risk of gender-based violence.”
The group of experts expressed their gratitude and admiration to health workers around the world who heroically battle the outbreak. “They face huge workloads, risk their own lives and are forced to face painful ethical dilemmas when resources are too scarce. Healthcare workers need to have all possible support from States, business, media and the public at large.
“COVID-19 is a serious global challenge,” the experts said. “But it is also a wake-up call for the revitalization of universal human rights principles. These principles and trust in scientific knowledge must prevail over the spread of fake news, prejudice, discrimination, inequalities and violence.
“We all together face this unprecedented challenge. The business sector in particular continues to have human rights responsibilities in this crisis. Only with concerted multilateral efforts, solidarity and mutual trust, will we defeat the pandemic while becoming more resilient, mature and united.
“When the vaccine for COVID-19 comes, it should be provided without discrimination. Meanwhile, as it is still to come, the human rights-based approach is already known as another effective pathway in the prevention of major public health threats,” the experts concluded.
ENDS

(*) The experts: Dainius Pūras, Special Rapporteur on the right to physical and mental health; Dubravka Šimonović, Special Rapporteur on violence against women; Ahmed Shaheed, Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief; Victor Madrigal-Borloz, Independent Expert on sexual orientation and gender identity; Javaid Rehman, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran; Rosa Kornfeld-Matte, Independent Expert on the enjoyment of all human rights by older persons; Léo Heller, Special Rapporteur on the human rights to water and sanitation; Fabian Salvioli, Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence; Alioune Tine, Independent Expert on the situation of Human Rights in Mali; Fernand de Varennes, Special Rapporteur on minority issues; Obiora Okafor, Independent Expert on human rights and international solidarity; Aristide Nononsi, Independent Expert on the situation of Human Rights in Sudan; David R. Boyd Special Rapporteur on human rights and the environment; Urmila Bhoola, Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery; Ahmed Reid (Chair), Dominique Day, Michal  Balcerzak, Ricardo A. Sunga III, and Sabelo Gumedze, Working Group of experts on people of African descent; Saad Alfarargi, Special Rapporteur on the right to development; Victoria Tauli Corpuz, Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples; Livingstone Sewanyanan, Independent Expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable international order; Catalina Devandas Aguilar, Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities; Yanghee Lee, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar; Elizabeth Broderick (Vice Chair), Alda Facio, Ms. Ivana Radačić, Meskerem Geset Techane (Chair), Melissa Upreti, Working Group on discrimination against women and girls; Yao Agbetse, Independent Expert on the situation of Human Rights in the Central African Republic; S. Michael Lynkthe, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian Territory occupied since 1967; Alice Cruz, Special Rapporteur on the elimination of discrimination against persons affected by leprosy and their family members, Nils Melzer, Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; David R. Boyd, Special Rapporteur on human rights and the environment; Rhona Smith, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Cambodia; Ikponwosa Ero Independent Expert on the enjoyment of human rights by persons with albinism; Daniela Kravetz, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Eritrea; David Kaye, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression; Anais Marin, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Belarus; Githu Muigai (Chair), Anita Ramasastry (Vice-chair), Dante Pesce, Elzbieta Karska, and Surya Deva, Working Group on the issue of human rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises; Clément Voule, Special Rapporteur on the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association; Fionnuala D. Ní Aoláin, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism; Michel Forst, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders; Cecilia Jimenez-Damary, Special rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons; José Antonio Guevara Bermúdez (Chair), Leigh Toomey (Vice-Chair on Communications), Elina Steinerte (Vice-Chair on Follow-up), Seong-Phil Hong and Sètondji Adjovi, Working Group on Arbitrary Detention; Diego García-Sayán, Special Rapporteur on the Independence of Judges and Lawyers; Luciano A. Hazan (Chair), Tae-Ung Baik (Vice-chair), Houria Es-Slami, Henrikas Mickevičius, Bernard Duhaime, Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances; E. Tendayi Achiume, Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance; Karima Bennoune, Special Rapporteur in the field of cultural rights.
The Special Rapporteurs, Independent Experts and Working Groups are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council's independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures' experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organisation and serve in their individual capacity.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/39221-no-exceptions-covid-19-%E2%80%9Ceveryone-has-right-life-saving-interventions%E2%80%9D-%E2%80%93-un-experts-say




Date: 26 March 2020
Title: Secretary-General’s message on the forty-fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the Biological Weapons Convention
Content: 26 March 2020
Today marks the forty-fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the Biological Weapons Convention, the first multilateral disarmament treaty to ban an entire category of weapons of mass destruction.  During the intervening years, the Biological Weapons Convention has made an important contribution towards collective efforts to eliminate such threats.  Today, the norm against biological weapons remains strong, and the very idea of using disease as a weapon is viewed with repugnance. However, the international community must remain vigilant. Scientific advances are reducing technical barriers which earlier limited the potential of biological weapons.
I therefore call on States parties to urgently update the mechanisms within the Convention for reviewing advances in science and technology and to work together to improve biosecurity and biopreparedness so that all countries are equipped to prevent and respond to the possible use of biological weapons.
 
The Convention’s Ninth Review Conference in 2021 is an opportunity to address these and other issues and to consider how to adapt this landmark Convention to future challenges.  I urge States Parties to think creatively about the future evolution of the Convention and how to uphold its central role in preventing the misuse of biology for hostile purposes.
 
Forty-five years after its entry into force, the Biological Weapons Convention has the support of 183 States parties. The Convention continues to grow, with more than 20 States having joined in the past ten years, demonstrating its continued relevance. I call upon the 14 governments that have not yet joined the Convention to do so without delay.
 
In this anniversary year, all countries should reaffirm their unequivocal rejection of the use of disease as a weapon, as well as their commitment to a robust international health security architecture that guarantees the maintenance of peaceful and healthy societies around the world.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/39112-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-message-forty-fifth-anniversary-entry-force-biological-weapons-convention




Date: 24 March 2020
Title: The Secretary-General Appeal for Global Cease-Fire
Content: 24 March 2020
The virus does not care about nationality or ethnicity, faction or faith.  It attacks all, relentlessly.
Meanwhile, armed conflict rages on around the world.
The most vulnerable — women and children, people with disabilities, the marginalized and the displaced — pay the highest price.
They are also at the highest risk of suffering devastating losses from COVID-19.
Let’s not forget that in war-ravaged countries, health systems have collapsed.
Health professionals, already few in number, have often been targeted.
Refugees and others displaced by violent conflict are doubly vulnerable.
The fury of the virus illustrates the folly of war.
That is why today, I am calling for an immediate global ceasefire in all corners of the world.
It is time to put armed conflict on lockdown and focus together on the true fight of our lives.
To warring parties, I say:
Pull back from hostilities.
Put aside mistrust and animosity.
Silence the guns; stop the artillery; end the airstrikes.
This is crucial…
To help create corridors for life-saving aid.
To open precious windows for diplomacy.
To bring hope to places among the most vulnerable to COVID-19.
Let us take inspiration from coalitions and dialogue slowly taking shape among rival parties to enable joint approaches to COVID-19.  But we need much more.
End the sickness of war and fight the disease that is ravaging our world.
It starts by stopping the fighting everywhere. Now.
That is what our human family needs, now more than ever.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/38832-secretary-general-appeal-global-cease-fire




Date: 10 March 2020
Title: Myanmar: UN expert Yanghee Lee finishes mandate by urging authorities to embrace democracy and human rights
Content: 10 March 2020
“When I took up my mandate in 2014, I had thought that by 2020 a rights-respecting democracy would have been firmly established in Myanmar. But devastation and tragedy transpired,” she said in a statement in a video conference from Seoul.
“Rather than a nation that protects human rights, I observe rights violations that continue to routinely occur and a country that stands accused of the most serious crimes under international law.”
“However, it is not too late for the country to change course and reorient itself to transform into a democracy that embraces human rights for all,” the Special Rapporteur told the Human Rights Council.
Lee proposed that Myanmar undertake a national dialogue that is inclusive and firmly grounded in human rights to address ongoing issues including discrimination and inequality. She also proposed ways to move towards an equal, tolerant and pluralistic society, including through victim-centered transitional justice mechanisms.
The UN expert highlighted the need to bring the entire Government and security forces under civilian control. She called for wide-ranging reforms to develop modern institutions able to serve the people without discrimination. She called for extensive legal reforms, including of the Constitution, land laws, the Citizenship Law and laws that violate fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, assembly and religion.
“An end to impunity is the lynchpin for Myanmar to succeed in its transition to democracy. Perpetrators of human rights violations and international crimes must be held accountable,” she stressed.
Lee said the Government must meet its responsibility to do so by reforming the justice system, ensuring judicial independence, removing systemic barriers to accountability and building judicial and investigatory capacity in accordance with international standards.
“I urge the international community most strongly to support the ongoing international accountability initiatives and ensure that victims are placed at the center of all of these efforts,” the Special Rapporteur said.
Lee reported to the Council that the armed conflict between the Tatmadaw – the Myanmar armed forces - and the Arakan Army is well into its second year. An internet blackout -- that was first imposed eight months ago -- once again extends to nine townships in northern Rakhine and southern Chin, affecting one million of mostly ethnic Rakhine people and seriously hampering humanitarian efforts and independent monitoring.
Students who protested the blackout were arrested in Yangon at the end of February. This week, Reuters news agency has become the latest media outlet to be the subject of a defamation claim by the Tatmadaw in relation to its reporting on the conflict.
“Once again the international community is watching on as the Tatmadaw displays its disregard for human life and its contempt for the values of humanity,” the expert said.
Lee told the Council that in the last few months, hundreds of Rohingya have been arrested for trying to flee Myanmar and charged with criminal offences. Some have been sentenced to prison for up to two years. “The Government denies their ongoing persecution, but what else would force them to make such a desperate choice?”
Lee said that the hard-fought democratic space that paved the way for the National League for Democracy to win an election and form a Government is under real threat. Draconian laws remain intact, stifling free expression and exchange of information. “Without decisive action from the Government, I fear these issues will be exacerbated by the elections later this year.”
People in rural areas are also being imprisoned for fighting back against the dispossession of their land as the Government enacts laws that favour the interests of business and developers while neglecting the rights of affected people, Lee said. “For millions of people in Myanmar, subsistence farming based on traditional and communal practices is a way of life. But for many, this is becoming increasingly uncertain.”
Lee’s mandate finishes this April.
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/37469-myanmar-un-expert-yanghee-lee-finishes-mandate-urging-authorities-embrace-democracy-and-human




Date: 09 March 2020
Title: MEDIA ADVISORY: Country Visit to Myanmar by Her Royal Highness Princess Soamsawali Krom Muen Suddhanarinatha, UNAIDS Goodwill Ambassador for HIV Prevention for Asia and the Pacific
Content: 09 March 2020
In her role as the UNAIDS Goodwill Ambassador for HIV Prevention for Asia and the Pacific, HRH Princess Soamsawali undertakes a country visit to Myanmar to advance the HIV prevention agenda and catalyze leadership to fast-track the HIV response in the region. HRH Princess Soamsawali will be accompanied by Her Royal Highness Princess Bajrakitiyabha Narendira Debyavati, high level officials from the Ministry of Public Health of Thailand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Thailand, representatives from Thai Red Cross and Eamonn Murphy, UNAIDS Regional Director for Asia and the Pacific.
The visit follows a meeting held on the sidelines of the 35th ASEAN Summit between HRH Princess Soamsawali, HRH Princess Bajrakitiyabha and Her Excellency Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar State Counsellor to foster cross-sharing of experiences and lessons learnt on HIV prevention and to discuss opportunities for collaboration in the areas of community-led service delivery and HIV prevention.
For almost three decades, HRH Princess Soamsawali has been heavily engaged in efforts to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV, to encourage new HIV testing methods and to support the introduction of PrEP in Thailand. Among other projects, she has supported the Princess PrEP programme — the first community-based PrEP distribution model which has been used as a model to scale up PrEP services within the national healthcare system.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/37268-media-advisory-country-visit-myanmar-her-royal-highness-princess-soamsawali-krom-muen




Date: 27 February 2020
Title: High Commissioner report on Rohingya and other minorities in Myanmar
Content: 27 February 2020
43rd session of the Human Rights Council
Geneva, 27 February 2020
High Commissioner report on Rohingya and other minorities in Myanmar
Statement by Michelle Bachelet United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights

Madam President,
The Council has been presented with our report on root causes of the violations and abuses suffered by ethnic and religious minorities in Myanmar, including the Rohingya, pursuant to resolution 39/2. I am pleased to note the engagement of the Government of Myanmar in providing constructive inputs to the report.
As noted in the report, discrimination and exclusion against religious and ethnic minorities have characterised many of the laws and policies of Myanmar for over half a century. They have contributed to and perpetuated violence, extreme poverty, exploitation and dispossession. Notably, the 1982 Citizenship Law rendered stateless a significant proportion of the Rohingya and other Muslims, compounding their vulnerability.
Moreover, ethnic and religious minorities across the country have to varying degrees, suffered serious human rights violations at the hands of the military, whose counter-insurgency policies and tactics have at times included the deliberate targeting of civilians. Ethnic and religious minorities have, to a lesser extent suffered abuses by ethnic armed groups.
Several international accountability mechanisms have commenced proceedings in relation to the alleged international crimes committed in Myanmar.
The root causes of these violations are complex, multi-dimensional and long-standing. Unpacking and untangling this multi-faceted human rights challenge requires understanding the historical, political, economic and social dimensions as a prerequisite to identifying solutions.
Democratic deficits in Myanmar, as well as entrenched impunity, weak rule of law, and the lack of civilian oversight over the military, have been major enabling factors.
Economic interests have also been an important driver, fuelling displacement, deepening inequalities and depriving minority communities of the basic means for survival.   The social and economic impact on women and girls, particularly through sexual and gender-based violence, has been especially acute.
The recent upsurge of xenophobia and violence can also be partly attributed to the stresses and uncertainties of Myanmar’s current transition from decades of authoritarian rule. The dramatic expansion of public access to social media has enabled extremist and ultra-nationalist movements to propagate messages inciting hatred and violence, fuelling communal tensions. I urge the Government to take action to address escalating prejudice and incitement against Rohingya Muslims and other minority communities. Inter-faith, civil society initiatives such as the Panzagar (flower speech) campaign should be encouraged and supported.
In addition, my report highlights some of the other measures that would help to foster greater space for diversity and equality in Myanmar, protection for the rights of religious and ethnic minorities, and ultimately sustainable peace and reconciliation. Addressing the rights of minorities will be essential for Myanmar to resolve conflicts, build peace and consolidate the democratic transition. Decisive measures are needed to ensure genuine accountability and civilian oversight of the military. Legal and policy reforms are needed, including with regard to citizenship. Education reforms can encourage a new sense of national identity and promote diversity and tolerance. Transitional justice processes can help to heal deep divisions.
This year’s elections, current discussions of Constitutional reform, and the ongoing peace process are important opportunities to address the past and shape a common vision for the future. Rebuilding a society based on values of equality, non-discrimination and mutual respect, after so many years of repression and conflict, will also be key to fulfilling the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development across the entire country.
I reiterate the readiness of my Office and United Nations system to assist the Government to address these root causes and implement the report’s recommendations.
Thank you, Madam President
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/36252-high-commissioner-report-rohingya-and-other-minorities-myanmar




Date: 18 February 2020
Title: UN experts concerned at surge in civilian casualties in northwest Myanmar after internet shutdown
Content: 18 February 2020
GENEVA – Independent experts appointed by the Human Rights Council* have expressed grave concerns about the killing and displacement of civilians in northwest Myanmar during fighting between the military and an armed group, the Arakan Army, amid an information blackout in some parts of Rakhine and Chin States.
“Civilians, including children, continue to bear the brunt of this escalating conflict,” said the experts. “We are especially fearful for them as violence has increased in the areas where an internet shutdown was recently re-imposed. It is well known that human rights violations and abuses occur during security operations in Myanmar.”
On 3 February the Ministry of Transport and Communications suspended mobile internet services for a period of three months in Maungdaw, Buthidaung, Rathedaung and Myebon in Rakhine State and in Paletwa in Chin State. The Ministry has reportedly cited “security requirements and public interest” as the reasons for the shutdown. There has been a suspension in place in four other townships, including Kyauktaw, since June 2019.
Since 4 February, the experts have received credible reports of the daily fighting using involving helicopters and Navy ships. Fighting and the possible use of heavy weapons have also occurred near ethnic Rakhine and Rohingya villages in Kyauktaw, Paletwa, Rathedaung and Buthidaung Townships. The experts said that reports indicate that in the last 10 days up to 1,100 people have been displaced, including 600 civilians from We Ma Kya village in Kyauktaw.
The experts said they had received information that at least seven civilians have been killed, including three Rohingya in Buthidaung, and up to 50 injured, including 21 Khami children who came under fire while at an elementary school in Kha Mawe Cahung village in Buthidaung on 13 February. In Kyauktaw Township, local sources reported that one Rohingya boy died on his way to the hospital after being hurt by the shelling, and seven civilians were reportedly wounded, including three Rohingya. Reportedly a monastery was burned to the ground after being hit by artillery.
“We are gravely concerned that children are being killed and injured, and that reports suggest weapons are being used indiscriminately, and precautions are not being taken to protect civilians and civilian objects such as schools and monasteries, in violation of international humanitarian law,” the experts said. “We note that the International Court of Justice ordered the provisional measures in relation to the Rohingya minority and they must be followed.”
Civilians continue to experience severe difficulties in moving around the conflict-affected area, in particular people in need of assistance. Heavy restrictions on humanitarian access in Rakhine State remain in place and access for the media and human rights monitors is extremely limited. A curfew that has been place since April 2019 is restricting overnight movement and has hampered access to medical assistance. The government has stopped transport by boat on the Kalantan River between Paletwa and Kyauktaw, and there have been disruptions to other public transport from Paletwa town to Kyauktaw.
Since December 2018, the number of mostly Rakhine people forced to flee their homes in Rakhine due to the conflict has reportedly reached over 100,000. Only about half of that number have reportedly been registered by the Rakhine State Government in its displacement sites, meaning that around 50,000 people are sheltering informally in villages, monasteries and schools.
“We call on all parties to the conflict to abide by international humanitarian law and international human rights law and protect civilians at all times,” the experts said.
The internet shutdown has been effect in Ponnagyun, Mrauk-U, Kyauktaw and Minbya townships for eight months with no set date for resumption. The shutdown severely impacts the human rights of over a million people, including the right to safety, security, health, education, food, shelter, livelihood, freedom of expression, information, participation, association and assembly Given that many civilians track the presence of armed fighters and potential clashes, the shutdown can also have serious consequences on civilian protection and, potentially, the right to life.
“The blanket suspension of mobile internet cannot be justified and must end immediately. The government must also lift its restrictions and grant immediate access to the media, humanitarian organisations and human rights monitors,” the experts said.
The Special Rapporteur on human rights in Myanmar previously expressed her fears for the civilians in Rakhine State as a result of the initial internet suspension.
ENDS
* The UN experts: Ms. Yanghee Lee, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, Ms. Cecilia Jimenez-Damary, Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons, Mr. David Kaye, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression and Mr. Fernand de Varennes, Special Rapporteur on minority issues.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.

UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar


No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/35289-un-experts-concerned-surge-civilian-casualties-northwest-myanmar-after-internet-shutdown




Date: 04 February 2020
Title: Myanmar opium cultivation drops again as the regional drug economy continues to evolve: UNODC
Content: 04 February 2020
Nay Pyi Taw (Myanmar),  – Opium poppy cultivation in Myanmar declined a further 11% in 2019 to 33,100 hectares (ha), according to the Myanmar Opium Survey released today by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).
Decreases were observed in all areas except Kachin State, where cultivation increased slightly. Shan State, which accounts for 85% of cultivation in Myanmar, dropped 14% to 28,000 ha, continuing a downward trend that started in 2015 when Shan had an estimated 50,300 ha of cultivation. Kachin accounted for 12% or 3,900 ha in 2019, and Chin and Kayah states together for 3% or 1,200 ha. The national average yield per ha was estimated at 15.4kg/ha in 2019, a 9% increase on 2018.
Jeremy Douglas, UNODC Regional Representative, noted, “the drop in cultivation was again significant last year. We will continue to work with Myanmar and communities in Shan to assist the transition from opium to sustainable economic alternatives. We are also discussing options to help Kachin given the situation and needs there.”
The report also highlights opium price data, finding that average farm-gate values of fresh and dry opium decreased by 4% and 7% between 2018 and 2019 – over the last four years farm-gate prices dropped a staggering 63% and 51%. The decline in values combined with the reduction in supply again suggests that demand for heroin in the region is dropping, and that the drug market continues to shift strongly to synthetic drugs. At the same time, lower farm-gate prices make opium cultivation less attractive and viable, contributing to declining cultivation.
Although demand for heroin continues to drop, organized crime groups still generate substantial revenues from the drug in Myanmar. Domestic heroin consumption of 6 tons is valued at up to US$290 million, and the export of heroin generates approximately US$1 billion locally. At the same time, opium cultivation and heroin production in Myanmar continue to pose a significant public health and security challenge for Southeast Asia and neighbouring East Asia and Australia. An estimated 3 million heroin users remain in the region, with the retail market generating approximately US$ 10 billion annually.
The report also reconfirms the link between conflict and opium, with the highest levels of cultivation continuing to take place in unstable and conflict prone areas of Shan and Kachin. Opium cultivation, heroin production and trafficking, and the evolving illicit drug economy, are affecting peace and stability in the country and surrounding border areas.
Regional Representative Douglas commented, "major international organized crime groups are using conflict areas in the north to source heroin and produce and traffic synthetic drugs. They have the access to territory and relationships they need to do business." He added, “the situation here is having a profound impact on the broader Asia Pacific region – it is in everyone’s interests to address the illicit drug economy in Myanmar and the Mekong.”
The influence of opium poppy cultivation is being mitigated in some areas through alternative development programmes that provide viable sources of legitimate income.
Minister of Home Affairs Lieutenant General Kyaw Swe remarked, "the Government is pleased to see further declines, but we need to provide more support to opium producing areas if we are going to continue to make progress and ensure sustainability. We will also expand collaboration with Mekong MOU countries and UNODC to address organized crime and the production and cross-border trafficking of drugs and precursor chemicals."
Other UNODC programmes are helping address different aspects of the drug challenge, including by increasing regional cooperation to address organized crime and trafficking, control precursor chemicals, improve border management, and to provide access to health and social services.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/33462-myanmar-opium-cultivation-drops-again-regional-drug-economy-continues-evolve-unodc




Date: 24 January 2020
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesman for the Secretary-General
Content: 24 January 2020
The Secretary-General welcomes the Order of the International Court of Justice, indicating provisional measures in the case of The Gambia against Myanmar on the alleged breaches of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.
The Secretary-General notes the Court’s unanimous decision to order Myanmar, in accordance with its obligations under the Genocide Convention, “to take all measures within its power” in relation  to the members of the Rohingya group in its territory, to prevent the commission of acts within the scope of Article II of the Convention, including killing, causing serious bodily or mental harm, deliberately inflicting conditions of life calculated to bring about the group’s destruction and imposing measures intended to prevent births.
He also notes the Court’s instruction to Myanmar to ensure that its military, as well as any irregular armed units directed or supported by it and any organizations and persons subject to its control, do not commit such acts; also, that they do not conspire to commit genocide, do not directly and publicly incite the commission of genocide, do not attempt to commit genocide and are not complicit in genocide.
Further, the Secretary-General notes the Court’s order to Myanmar to ensure the preservation of evidence related to allegations of acts within the scope of the Genocide Convention, as well as to report to the Court on the implementation of all provisional measures on a regular basis.
The Secretary-General strongly supports the use of peaceful means to settle international disputes.  He further recalls that, pursuant to the Charter and to the Statute of the Court, decisions of the Court are binding and trusts that Myanmar will duly comply with the Order from the Court.
In accordance with the Statute of the Court, the Secretary-General will promptly transmit the notice of the provisional measures ordered by the Court to the Security Council.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 23 January 2020
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/32097-statement-attributable-spokesman-secretary-general




Date: 24 January 2020
Title: Myanmar: UN expert says ‘lost optimism but still hopes for promised democratic transition’
Content: 24 January 2020
DHAKA (23 January 2020) – As grave allegations of international crimes remain to be effectively addressed by the authorities in Myanmar, a UN human rights expert today said she had not given up hope as she concluded her final official visit to the region.
“I have lost my optimism – how could I be optimistic with ongoing credible allegations of war crimes, crimes against humanity and possibly genocide having been committed in Myanmar, and with justice and accountability still not yet within reach?,” said Yanghee Lee, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar in a statement following a visit to neighbouring Thailand and Bangladesh.
“But I still hold out hope that the promised democratic transition will proceed, as it is not too late for the Government to change the course it is currently set to. The Myanmar Government must face up to its responsibilities, obligations and duties.”
Lee’s mandate finishes this year. She took up her mandate in 2014, when Myanmar’s burgeoning democratic transition, promising reforms and encouraging progress were a source of “great optimism”, she said. She has been barred entry to the country since December 2017.
During her mission, the UN expert met with refugees in Cox’s Bazar refugee camp in Bangladesh. “I met with male survivors of sexual violence. They told me of the rape and gang rape that they endured at the hands of the Myanmar military and security forces in Rakhine,” she said. “I also met Rohingya Christians who told me they were persecuted by the Myanmar Government due to their religion.
“Refugees I spoke to were firm about their deep desire to return home. However, I was informed of ongoing violence, continuing restrictions on movement, forced imposition of National Verification Cards, and people being killed and injured by landmines in northern Rakhine. Conditions remain unsuitable for their return.
“The intensifying conflict between the Arakan Army and the Tatmadaw – the Myanmar armed forces - is having a devastating impact. The restrictions imposed by the Government, including the internet shutdown in four townships and the blockage of aid in eight townships, with the recent addition of Myebon town, severely exacerbate that impact. There are now reportedly over 100,000 living in camps and sheltering in villages in Rakhine, and 1,800 people displaced in southern Chin.
“I am also very worried about both sides engaging in disturbing tactics including abductions and mass arrests, and how this is instilling fear in the civilian population.”
Lee also expressed concern about the situation in northern Shan State, which remains volatile, with armed conflict ongoing, village leaders reportedly being targeted by the military and ethnic armed organisations, and civilian fatalities reportedly caused by gunfire and landmines.
With national elections coming this year, it is incumbent on the Government to ensure that they are peaceful, credible, free and fair; that all people in the country are able to equally participate; and that political debate is open and welcome, she said.
“Some people told me they are worried that polling may not be allowed in parts of Rakhine and Shan for security reasons. If that occurs, distrust towards the next government and community grievances and marginalization that already exist are only going to grow stronger, and this will further hamper efforts to move forward in the democratic transition and peace process.”
The UN expert observed that significant steps have been taken towards international justice and accountability in the last three years, but more needs to be done in order to realize it for all the people of Myanmar. She welcomed the decision today of the International Court of Justice that ordered preliminary measures in relation to Myanmar’s alleged violation of the Genocide Convention. She noted that on Monday, the Myanmar Government’s Independent Commission of Enquiry (ICOE) transmitted its final report to the President.
“I would very much like the opportunity to read the ICOE’s report in its entirety, and I call for it to be made public as soon as possible.
“I urge the international community to keep the credible evidence of ongoing crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide front of mind in its relations with Myanmar. In the face of this, one cannot proceed with business as usual.”
ENDS
Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/32098-myanmar-un-expert-says-%E2%80%98lost-optimism-still-hopes-promised-democratic-transition%E2%80%99




Date: 21 January 2020
Title: Myanmar: Renewed Engagement to End and Prevent Violations Against Children Affected by Armed Conflict
Content: 21 January 2020
New York, 20 January 2020 – The Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, Ms. Virginia Gamba, completed a five-day mission to Myanmar where she engaged with national authorities, civil society, Ethnic Armed Organizations representatives, the Diplomatic Corps and the Country Taskforce on Monitoring and Reporting on Children and Armed Conflict (CTFMR on CAAC) in Myanmar.
“Children in Myanmar have suffered tremendously from the impact of hostilities, especially in Rakhine, Shan and Kachin States; it is crucial for all parties, including the Tatmadaw and other Government security forces, to continue their engagement with the United Nations to end and prevent violations against children,” said the Special Representative.
During this visit to Yangon and Nay Pyi Taw, the second since 2018, the Special Representative met with senior government officials including the State Counsellor and Foreign Minister, Her Excellency Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, as well as the Ministers of Defense, of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement, of Labor and Immigration and Population, and with the Union Attorney General. She also had constructive discussions with the Chairs of the Joint Ceasefire Monitoring Committee.
“The Government Forces have made significant progress in the implementation of their joint Action Plan signed in 2012 with the United Nations on the recruitment of children; the Action Plan must now be expedited and finalized. I also urge the Tatmadaw Army to continue its engagement with the United Nations to develop measures to better protect children and to commit to a joint action plan on killing and maiming and sexual violence, violations for which they remain listed,” she added.
She welcomed the important milestones reached by the Government to end and prevent violations against children, including the recent enactment of the Child Rights Act criminalizing the six grave violations against children, the development of a national prevention plan and the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict (OPAC). She further encouraged the authorities to commit to the full implementation of the Child Rights Law, offering UN support in this regard. She also recommended that the Government consider signing the Safe Schools Declaration and joining the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines.
Additionally, in Yangon, the Special Representative met with representatives from the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army, Karen National Liberation Army and Karen National Liberation Army-Peace Council.  She welcomed their willingness to increase their engagement with the United Nations to end and prevent the recruitment and use of children and urged them to complete and sign respective action plans to end child recruitment and use.
The Special Representative welcomed the willingness of all parties to take strong steps to increase the protection of children from violations and expressed her appreciation to the Government authorities for enabling meetings with parties to the conflict in Myanmar.
In all her engagements, the Special Representative expressed the importance of placing children at the center of the peace process and highlighted the need for all parties of the current peace dialogue to take good note of existing best practices on the inclusion of CAAC language in peace agreements. She also invited Myanmar to be part of the Global Coalition for Reintegration, co-led by her Office and UNICEF.
She expressed deep concern over the increased intensity of conflict in Rakhine State, and in particular as they impact the children. Further, she called on the authorities in Myanmar to ensure humanitarian access for UN and non-governmental organizations to conflict-affected areas to adequately meet the needs of all affected children. In particular, she expressed her concern for displaced populations urging relevant authorities to provide access to these communities through simplified travel authorizations.
The Special Representative also met with the Diplomatic Corps in Myanmar and had several meetings with the UNCT and CTFMR on CAAC. She commended the work of the United Nations and International Non-Governmental Organizations’ members of the CTFMR in Myanmar.
Note to editors:
UN Security Council resolutions 1539 (2004), 1612 (2005), 1882 (2009), 1998 (2011) and 2225 (2015) on Children and Armed Conflict established measures and tools to end grave violations against children, through the creation of a monitoring and reporting mechanism, and the development of Action Plans to end violations by parties listed in the annexes of the Secretary-General’s annual report on children and armed conflict. UN Security Council resolution 2427 (2018) gives the Secretary-General’s Special Representative a mandate to work with any party to a conflict (not only a listed party) on measures to prevent the occurrence of the 6 grave violations.
In Myanmar, eight parties to conflict are listed in the annexes of the Secretary-General Annual Report for the recruitment and use of children. The Tatmadaw national army is engaged in an Action Plan with the UN to end and prevent the recruitment and use of children, but the United Nations stands ready to engage with other listed parties.
Parties listed in the Annexes of the 2019 Secretary-General Report on Children and Armed conflict
State actor
Non-state actors
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/31631-myanmar-renewed-engagement-end-and-prevent-violations-against-children-affected-armed




Date: 06 January 2020
Title: Statement to the press by Secretary-General António Guterres
Content: 06 January 2020
The New Year has begun with our world in turmoil.
We are living in dangerous times.
Geopolitical tensions are at their highest level this century.
And this turbulence is escalating.
Even nuclear non-proliferation can no longer be taken for granted.
This cauldron of tensions is leading more and more countries to take unpredicted decisions with unpredictable consequences and a profound risk of miscalculation.
At the same time, we see trade and technological conflicts that fracture world markets, undermine growth and widen inequalities.
And all the while, our planet is on fire.  The climate crisis rages on.
In many parts of the world, we see many people frustrated and angry.  We see increased social unrest and growing extremism, nationalism and radicalization, with a dangerous advance of terrorism, notably in Africa.
This situation cannot go on.
I have been following the recent rise in global tensions with great concern.
I am in constant contact with leading officials around the world.
My message is simple and clear:
Stop escalation.
Exercise maximum restraint.
Re-start dialogue.
Renew international cooperation.
Let us not forget the terrible human suffering caused by war.  As always, ordinary people pay the highest price.  It is our common duty to avoid it.
Thank you.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/30305-statement-press-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres




Date: 02 January 2020
Title: Press Release: UN75 Launch
Content: 02 January 2020
January 1, 2020 saw the launch of the UN75 initiative - the largest, most inclusive conversation on the role of global cooperation in building a better future for all. The initiative will see the UN spark dialogues throughout 2020 in diverse settings across the world.
In a ‘global reality check’, four innovative data streams will build the first ever repository of crowd-sourced solutions to major global challenges.
The UN75 dialogues together with a ‘One-minute Survey’ that anyone can take, opinion polling in 50 countries and artificial intelligence sentiment analysis of traditional and social media in 70 countries, will generate compelling data to inform national and international policies and debate.
In calling for participation, the Secretary-General said: “No country, no community, is able to solve the complex problems of our world alone. We need to come together, not only to talk, but to listen. It is absolutely essential that you all join the conversation. We need your opinion, your strategies and your ideas for us to be able to deliver better for the people of the world that we must serve.”
Intended to engage constituencies across borders, sectors and generations, the UN75 team is collaborating with a wide multi-sector network, including the UN Resident Coordinators, for a diverse and global reach, and for dialogues to be convened in every country of the world.
In a global listening exercise, with an emphasis on youth and groups not already engaged with the UN, the UN75 initiative aims to better understand expectations of international cooperation in light of pressing global challenges.
The views and ideas that are generated will be presented, by the Secretary-General, to world leaders and senior UN officials on September 21, 2020, at a high-level event to mark the 75th anniversary.
To inspire and inform the dialogues the UN is also partnering with Vox Media’s brand studio, Vox Creative to create a video informed by interviews with 38 people from around the world, sharing their experiences and opinions related to important global issues, to be launched January 6, 2020.
Those who want to be a part of the conversation - physically or online – can see how to join through the website: www.un.org/UN75.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/30202-press-release-un75-launch




Date: 12 December 2019
Title: UNICEF statement on the horrific killing of a school boy in Rakhine State, Myanmar
Content: 12 December 2019
On 6 December, yet another child lost his precious life in a horrific manner. The nine-year-old student, who was reportedly still wearing his school uniform and fleeing his school with other students because they heard sounds of armed clashes, was struck by several bullets and died on the spot on the road in front of his school, Basic Education Primary School – Pike The, in Kyauktaw, Rakhine State. We are shocked and saddened at such tragic loss of a child’s life.
YANGON, 12 December 2019 – On 6 December, yet another child lost his precious life in a horrific manner. The nine-year-old student, who was reportedly still wearing his school uniform and fleeing his school with other students because they heard sounds of armed clashes, was struck by several bullets and died on the spot on the road in front of his school, Basic Education Primary School – Pike The, in Kyauktaw, Rakhine State. We are shocked and saddened at such tragic loss of a child’s life.
UNICEF is deeply concerned about the alarming increase of reports of killings and injuries of children, as a result of intensified fighting between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Army in the conflict-affected areas of Rakhine State.
UNICEF calls on all parties to the conflict to ensure the full respect of the civilian character of schools, and to prevent any interference of armed actors with education infrastructures, personnel and students in line with national legal frameworks such as the Child Rights Law and the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement as well as obligations under international law. The presence of armed actors in or around schools increases the risk of schools being targeted and students and school personnel may be harmed, and school facilities damaged. It prevents children from accessing education, and associates schools with violent and traumatic events. We owe it to children to keep them safe at school and we urge all parties to the conflict, to exercise maximum restraint and to protect children at all times.
UNICEF further calls on the Government of Myanmar to endorse the Safe Schools Declaration and to adopt the Guidelines for Protecting Schools and Universities from Military Use during Armed Conflict, into domestic policy and operational frameworks.
We call on the Government to join the other 101 countries that already endorsed the Declaration to express their commitment for the protection of students, teachers, and schools during military operations.
Fre Yilma
Communication Specialist
UNICEF Myanmar
Tel: (+95)-94-2444-0391
Email: fyilma@unicef.org
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/28520-unicef-statement-horrific-killing-school-boy-rakhine-state-myanmar




Date: 18 November 2019
Title: The Myanmar Mechanism Conducts First Official Mission to Bangladesh
Content: 18 November 2019
A delegation of the United Nations Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar (the “Myanmar Mechanism”), led by the Head of the Myanmar Mechanism, Mr. Nicholas Koumjian, conducted the Mechanism’s first mission to the region by visiting Bangladesh from 9 to 14 November 2019.
The delegation travelled to Cox’s Bazar to meet with representatives of the refugee community, civil society organizations and community leaders. Mr. Koumjian explained the mandate of the Mechanism, listen to the concerns of the representatives and discussed how victims can engage with the Mechanism.
The main focus of the discussions centered on questions from victims’ representatives about the potential impact of the Mechanism and the ways it will discharge its mission. Mr. Koumjian explained that the Mechanism was an investigative as opposed to judicial body and it will rely on and work with authorities from national and international courts to pursue prosecutions. The Mechanism will organize the evidence it collects on individuals’ criminal responsibility in case files, which will be turned over to national, regional or international courts able and willing to try perpetrators of serious international crimes.
Mr. Koumjian explained other issues of concern to victims’ representatives, including that the Mechanism will give the highest priority to ensuring that the security and privacy of witnesses are respected.
“Victims of all ethnic backgrounds are the key constituency for the Myanmar Mechanism and this mission was only the first in many more to come in which we will directly engage with them,” said the Head of the Mechanism. “Our main goal was to clarify the Myanmar Mechanism’s unique mandate and explain that while the Mechanism is not a court and cannot itself arrest, try or punish anyone, it will pursue its mandate to promote accountability by gathering, analysing and preserving the evidence of crimes and international law violations committed since 2011 in Myanmar.”
The delegation also held discussions with other relevant stakeholders on establishing the necessary cooperation to allow the Mechanism to fulfill its mandate.
The Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar was established by the Human Rights Council in resolution 39/2 of 27 September 2018 with the mandate to collect, consolidate, preserve, and analyze evidence of the most serious international crimes and violations of international law. The Human Rights Council resolution directed the Mechanism to use the material collected to prepare files that will facilitate and expedite fair and independent criminal proceedings, in accordance with international law standards, in national, regional or international courts or tribunals that have, or in the future may have, jurisdiction over these crimes.
For more information on the IIMM visit: https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/IIMM/Pages/Index.aspx
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/25323-myanmar-mechanism-conducts-first-official-mission-bangladesh




Date: 05 November 2019
Title: Education initiative reaches over 1 million disadvantaged children in Myanmar
Content: 05 November 2019
A high-level government ceremony in Sittwe, Rakhine State, marked the end of the Building on Quality Basic Education Programme (BoQBEP), which has benefitted over one million children nationwide, reaching some for the first time. The programme was led by the Ministry of Education with the support of the European Union (EU), Denmark and UNICEF.
The BoQBEP programme, which began in 2016, supported the Government of Myanmar to improve access to quality learning for disadvantaged children. A major achievement included the launch of the national Education Strategic Plan to guide the national framework for quality and inclusive education for all children in Myanmar. Direct support to children included providing kindergarten play materials such as books, puzzles and clay to all 70,000 kindergarten classes nationwide.
Since July 2017, BoQBEP increasingly focused on children in Rakhine State, supporting inclusive education for all children, irrespective of religion, ethnicity, race, gender or citizenship status in line with the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State.
“The programme supported our efforts to reach children who are in some of the hardest to reach places,” said Director General of the Department of Basic Education, U Ko Lay Win. “In Rakhine State, the Government provided over 16,000 displaced and conflict-affected children with access to learning opportunities, under BoQBEP support.”
The Ambassador of the EU Delegation to Myanmar, Mr Kristian Schmidt said, " This is because we understand that education is both necessary for Myanmar's development, as well as a fundamental right for all human beings, regardless of their nation, language, ethnic origin, religion or any other status. Education is also crucial to enhance understanding between diverse ethnicities and cultures, to foster tolerance and peace. Myanmar needs an educated and skilled population, which benefits everyone in Myanmar."
"Every child has the right to receive basic quality education. Through inclusive education, we hope to have contributed to creating the future foundation for mutual understanding and peace between the diverse communities in Rakhine State,” said the Danish Ambassador, Mr John Nielsen. “I am pleased that the programme, with the support of the Ministry of Education, has been able to bring children from all communities together, and provided them with the skills and education needed to contribute to developing Rakhine State."
The day-long closing ceremony included an official opening of a newly built classroom block at Ye Chan Pyin Basic Education Middle School, in Sittwe, one of the 38 schools which were renovated or reconstructed under BoQBEP. The delegates also visited to Baw Du Pha camp for Muslim internally displaced people, to observe a non-formal primary education (NFPE) centre and temporary learning classrooms, which also received support from BoQBEP and have been managed by Save the Children International (SCI).
Other key achievements under the BoQBEP programme include:
“The ceremony highlighted many of the achievements experienced since 2016 and gave us an opportunity to reflect on the challenges still ahead, particularly on how to increase access to quality education for all children, in areas experiencing on-going conflict and in hard to reach areas,” said UNICEF Deputy Representative to Myanmar Paul Edwards.
Note to editors
BoQBEP built on the previous Quality Basic Education Programme (QBEP) which ran from 2012 to 2016, supported by the Multi-Donor Education Fund (MDEF) comprising Australia, Denmark, the European Union, Norway, the United Kingdom and UNICEF. Over 2.5 million children benefitted from QBEP.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/23588-education-initiative-reaches-over-1-million-disadvantaged-children-myanmar




Date: 24 October 2019
Title: Secretary-General's Message on United Nations Day 24 October 2019
Content: 24 October 2019
Amid stormy global seas, the Charter remains our shared moral anchor.
At this time of turbo-charged change, the United Nations remains focused on the real problems of real people.
We are working for a fair globalization and bold climate action.
We are pushing for human rights and gender equality -- and saying “no” to hatred of any kind.
And we are striving to maintain peace – while bringing life-saving aid to millions caught up in armed conflict.
The United Nations itself is becoming ever more agile and accountable as we enhance support to countries.
Next year marks the Organization’s 75th anniversary.  This milestone is a critical moment to shape our future, together.
I invite you to join the conversation.
Together, let us advance the well-being of “we the peoples”.
Thank you.




No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/22199-secretary-generals-message-united-nations-day-24-october-2019




Date: 23 October 2019
Title: Remarks by Ms. Christine Schraner Burgener, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Myanmar General Assembly, 23 October 2019
Content: 23 October 2019
Mr. President, Distinguished delegates,
1. The Secretary-General highlights in his Report A/74/311, both urgency and opportunities ahead of the 2020 general elections.
2. Overall, against the backdrop of continued communal tensions and ethnic strife throughout the country, greater action is needed towards addressing the root causes of violence and institutionalized discrimination.
3. In Rakhine State and elsewhere, the Government of Myanmar has committed to the effective implementation of critical steps toward this, including the recommendations of the Advisory Commission headed by the late Mr. Kofi Annan and most recently, a national strategy on the closure of camps for internally displaced persons.
4. Such commitments were a promising first step. But after two years, it is high time for Myanmar’s affected communities to see from their government, concrete steps and genuine political will in building an inclusive and vibrant democracy.  This requires durable solutions based on a consultative/right-based approach.
5. An essential step in this direction will be for civilian and military authorities to take a resounding unified stance against incitement and hatred. This should go together with promoting an electoral process that is widely inclusive, transparent and accessible so that it can serve as a nationally unifying event.
Distinguished delegates,
6. Myanmar has repeatedly stated its cooperation with the United Nations will remain cornerstone of its foreign policy.  Since the publication of the Secretary-General’s Report, I visited Myanmar once more and plan on my ninth visit in November.
7. Through these visits, I will continue to engage with State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders in conveying my first-hand observations in affected areas and the deep grievances I continue to hear in my interactions with all communities affected by violence, including those in Rakhine and refugees in Bangladesh, among others.
8. Just last week, the State media reported that the Committee for Implementation of the Recommendations on Rakhine State met on 10 October and discussed suggestions I had provided during my latest field visit to Rakhine State.  The space for dialogue exists.
9. My latest efforts, in close cooperation with UNICEF and other key stakeholders, continue to focus on access to Burmese curriculum in the refugee camps and improving education opportunities in Rakhine State.  This is key in guarding against a generation lost.
10. Considerable international and regional support to domestic efforts will be important in helping ensure international standards and principles are upheld.
Distinguished delegates,
11. Access for the UN and its partners remains problematic, especially in areas affected by violence, like in the western and northeast peripheries.  But it is important also to recognize progress and help build on any positive momentum.
12. Myanmar signing the 6 June 2018 MoU with UNDP and UNHCR aimed at creating conditions conducive for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable repatriation of refugees to their places of origin or choosing was an important step.
13. Since then, there has been improvement in terms of access to more locations covered under the MoU for Quick Impact Projects (QIPS), aimed at supporting recovery and resiliencebased development for the benefit of all communities in Rakhine.  We hope even more access for the UN and its partners will be granted without further delay.
Distinguished delegates,
14. I will remain in close dialogue with ASEAN officials, whose regional support will be crucial.  ASEAN members including Myanmar highlighted the importance of coordinating regional efforts with the UN and supplementing our engagement, including on the tripartite MoU.
15. In addition to the recent preliminary engagement by the ASEAN emergency response and assistance team, regional leaders stressed the need to assist Myanmar to address the root causes of the conflict and to create a conducive environment so that affected communities could rebuild their lives.
Distinguished delegates,
16. To that end, there is no question that more steps are needed towards ensuring the rights, dignity and security of all communities in Rakhine State.  This requires freedom of movement and the equal access of displaced persons to livelihoods and non-segregated basic services, including to mainstream education, jobs and health services. This is required not only for IDPs in camps but others.
17. The underlying issues must be addressed.  Again, the Advisory Commission on Rakhine has also provided relevant recommendations as a guiding framework, which consider the needs of the victims and address root causes, including discrimination, persecution and the lack of legal status and of credible process for citizenship.
Distinguished delegates,
18. I welcome that the Government has positively moved on proposals to simplify and expedite the citizenship verification application and decision-making process that have to be materialized now.  But this remains predicated on the 1982 Citizenship Law, which will require reforms as it does not meet international standards in key areas related to non-discrimination and prevention and reduction of statelessness.
19. Authorities have also taken measures to distribute a fact-sheet to refugees in Bangladesh for greater transparency in the repatriation process and established a public complaints mechanism.
20. Furthermore, in July Nay Pyi Taw officials engaged refugees in Cox’s Bazar together with Bangladesh and ASEAN representatives.
21. In addition to supporting durable solutions in Rakhine, including for IDPs currently restricted to camps, the UN will continue to urge Myanmar to build on its recent efforts to facilitate dialogue with the refugees and pursue forging greater trust between both sides through other confidence building measures.
22. Let us be clear, it is ultimately the responsibility of Myanmar to create sustainable conditions conducive for return, so that refugees can return voluntarily, in safety and in dignity to their homes. Authorities in Myanmar should sustain a dialogue with them and help ensure their voices are central to real solutions.
23. There have been recent reports of around 300 refugees who returned to Rakhine of their own volition.  Their treatment and whether they can live in their places origin or choosing and under more dignified conditions will be a key indicator.
24. What I have sensed first-hand from my field visits to Rakhine is the prevailing strong sense of communal tensions on the ground.  This will require greater interfaith and intercommunal dialogue, which will remain a key focus for the work of my Office.  It is critical for the Government to help expand space for this.
Distinguished delegates,
25. Security developments linked to clashes between the Arakan Army (AA) and the Tatmadaw have exacerbated the precarious situation in Rakhine, one of the nation’s poorest regions.
26. This has shed light on the long-standing grievances of Rakhine Buddhists towards Bamar-majority center, in addition to the disenfranchisement of the Rohingya.
27. Yet, there has been minimal international condemnation on the suffering of Rakhine civilians. We also need to be a voice for them not least in the wake of increasing casualties, restriction of access to information and burning of homes belonging to ethnic Rakhine.
28. Meanwhile, Rohingya and others continue to suffer and more so due to the latest violence.  Some killed and homes also burned, sparking haunting recent memory.  This does not bode well.
29. As I urged this General Assembly in July, it is crucial that our advocacy highlights the well-being of all affected communities and that our engagements and support help promote social cohesion.
Distinguished delegates,
30. Whether in Rakhine or other ethnic areas, including in Kachin and Northern Shan, where fighting has resumed, we need to collectively advocate all sides to ensure the protection of civilians and uphold their responsibilities under International Humanitarian and Human Rights Law.
31. It is regrettable that mistrust between the military and ethnic armed organizations continue as reflected in the Tatmadaw’s September announcement that the latest Unilateral Ceasefire Declaration (UCD) in many affected areas would not be extended.
32. All sides are responsible for exercising restraint and avoiding actions that can reverse the gains of the peace while providing protection and access to those in need.  This will be paramount for greater efforts towards a more inclusive peace process.
Distinguished delegates,
33. As highlighted in the Secretary-General’s Report, the military has demonstrated some openness in engaging constructively with the United Nations, especially SRSG Patten and SRSG Gamba on sexual violence in conflict and children in armed conflict issues.  Earlier this month, Myanmar ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict.
34. I will continue to work closely with various UN partners to promote system-wide coherence that is principled and constructive.
Distinguished delegates,
35. Yesterday, you heard from two important independent mandates holders on accountability and I have continued to urge Nay Pyi Taw’s cooperation with all UN human rights entities as effective international cooperation will be critical to ensuring that national accountability mechanisms are credible, independent and effective in delivering justice for victims.
36. A critical component of accountability measures, including from the vantage point of the victims, is national ownership and the responsibility to conduct credible investigations and prosecutions, which is why a credible, transparent process and effective outcome of Myanmar’s Independent Commission of Enquiry will be vital.
Distinguished delegates,
37. The preponderant political role of the military in Myanmar remains an obstacle to the ongoing democratic transition. We are already witnessing hardening positions ahead of the 2020 polls.
38. This is immensely challenging for the civilian leadership, which is forging ahead with democratic reforms, including amending the Constitution.
39. We must be mindful of the already precarious domestic tensions and engage in a manner that helps empower voices and action for progress, including the many civil society organizations and some religious leaders courageously campaigning for tolerance, genuine representation and strength in diversity.
40. This is where a prosperous and secure future for Myanmar and all communities within the country resides.
Thank you.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/22218-remarks-ms-christine-schraner-burgener-special-envoy-secretary-general-myanmar-general




Date: 23 October 2019
Title: Media Statement: UN Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar calls on UN Member States to remain vigilant in the face of the continued threat of genocide
Content: 23 October 2019
NEW YORK (23 October 2019) – The head of the UN Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar, Marzuki Darusman, told the General Assembly on Wednesday that Myanmar is failing in its obligations under the Genocide Convention to prevent, to investigate and to enact effective legislation criminalising and punishing genocide.
Mr. Darusman spoke to the General Assembly at the request of the Human Rights Council. He said the Mission’s findings are based on the fact that the policies, laws, individuals and institutions that laid the groundwork for the brutal “clearance operations” in 2016 and 2017 remain in place and strong.
Mr. Darusman said the Mission found that crimes under international law, which were reported on last year, continue to be committed by Myanmar’s military, called the Tatmadaw, throughout the country, impacting Myanmar’s ethnic communities.
Serious violations of human rights and humanitarian law have been committed in both northern Myanmar and in the context of the continuing conflict between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army in Rakhine State. “This confirms our previous conclusion that the cycle of impunity enables, and indeed fuels, this reprehensible conduct on the part of the security forces,” Mr Darusman said.
The harsh persecution of the Rohingya community in Myanmar continues unabated in defiance of the international community. The treatment of some 600,000 Rohingya remaining in Rakhine State is largely unchanged. Their situation has worsened, as they endure another year subjected to discrimination, segregation, movement restrictions and insecurity, without adequate access to livelihoods, land, basic services, including education and health care, or justice for past crimes committed against them by the Tatmadaw.
This makes the return to Rakhine State of close to one million Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh simply impossible, Mr. Darusman said.
Mr. Darusman took the opportunity of the Fact-Finding Mission’s final report to the General Assembly to call on Member States to remain vigilant. He said Myanmar had failed in its obligation to protect its people, making it all the more important that the Human Rights Council, the General Assembly and the Security Council act to stop continued violations and prevent their re-occurrence. He asked Member States to prioritise the three areas.
First, he asked Member States to continue to authorise, through the Human Rights Council with the support of the General Assembly, public reporting mandates including the independent monitoring of the implementation of all the Fact-Finding Mission’s recommendations.

Second, he asked Member States to continue to pursue accountability, in light of what he termed a clear “accountability deficit” on the part of the Myanmar Government, and to mandate alternative accountability mechanisms, if needed.
Finally, he reiterated the Mission’s previous calls for financial and political disengagement from Myanmar’s military to help deter human rights violations. He asked the General Assembly to consider endorsing disengagement, while recommending targeted sanctions and an arms embargo by the Security Council.
These measures are required as “the human rights catastrophe in Myanmar has not ended,” Mr. Darusman said. He concluded that the hundreds of thousands of victims rightfully expect no less than the continued commitment by the international community to accountability and justice.
ENDS
The Human Rights Council on 24 March 2017 decided (through Resolution A/HRC/RES/34/22) to dispatch urgently an independent international fact-finding mission, to be appointed by the President of the Human Rights Council, to establish the facts and circumstances of the alleged recent human rights violations by military and security forces, and abuses, in Myanmar, in particular in Rakhine State, including but not limited to arbitrary detention, torture and inhuman treatment, rape and other forms of sexual violence, extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary killings, enforced disappearances, forced displacement and unlawful destruction of property, with a view to ensuring full accountability for perpetrators and justice for victims.
The Experts:
Marzuki Darusman, lawyer and human rights campaigner and former Attorney-General of Indonesia, is chair of the fact-finding mission. The other two members of the fact-finding mission are Radhika Coomaraswamy, a lawyer and former UN Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women and UN Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict; and Christopher Sidoti, an international human rights lawyer and former Australian Human Rights Commissioner.
Website of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar:
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/MyanmarFFM/Pages/Index.aspx
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/22210-media-statement-un-independent-international-fact-finding-mission-myanmar-calls-un-member




Date: 22 October 2019
Title: Statement by Ms. Yanghee Lee Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar
Content: 22 October 2019
74th session of the General Assembly
Third Committee
Agenda Item 72 (c)
22 October 2018
New York

Mr. Chair, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Thank you for the opportunity to present my latest report to the General Assembly.
Myanmar continues to deny my access, but human rights issues, abuses and violations are still reported to me, and I must inform you that there is no discernable improvement to the situation in Myanmar for me to report to you, however I must acknowledge Myanmar’s ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict in September. Myanmar must now live up to its new obligations and ensure that child soldiers remain firmly in its past, and not its future.
Mr Chair,
Despite my repeated calls, the Government has neither repealed nor amended repressive laws that infringe on rights, and these continue to be weaponised against those attempting to exercise their rights to freedom of expression, association and assembly. Since April of this year, there has been a sharp rise in the number of such cases, with the military commencing prosecutions of critical protestors, activists and journalists reporting on the conflict in Rakhine State. In September, Government officials filed separate criminal defamation complaints against two satirists and a cartoonist for their social media posts, which were critical of the ruling National League for Democracy. With general elections next year, this is a deeply worrying trend.
Discrimination against religious minorities continues unabated. I am informed of 27 villages which describe themselves as “Muslim free”, banning Muslims from entry.
Friends and colleagues,
I am concerned about Government plans for hydropower development in conflict areas where communities have been displaced from their land, including in Rakhine and Chin States. Communities in Kachin, Shan and Kayin States continue to protest proposed hydropower dams that will submerge their lands, and with very little information made public about the plans, they are left in limbo about their fate.
The Government has continued to reform the legislation on land use, prioritizing land acquisition for commercial purposes, but has failed to establish an adequate legal framework for recognizing, registering and protecting rights to customary and communal land use. The result is increasing land and livelihood insecurity and a growing number of cases of land confiscation.
Excellencies,
As armed conflicts continue to be waged, I am again seeing conduct by parties that violates international humanitarian law and may amount to war crimes. Impunity for these crimes prevails, while communities face a continuing devastating cycle of abuse.
In Rakhine State, the heavy fighting between the military (Tatmadaw) and the Arakan Army continues. Villagers have been targeted, killed and injured by indiscriminate fire, and entire villages have been burned. Rakhine men and boys have been detained by security forces and some have died in custody, with reports of the use of torture. The Arakan Army has reportedly recently abducted 31 people and is depriving them of their liberty.
As many as 60,000 people have been displaced by the conflict in Rakhine this year, along with another 10,000 in Chin State. Government restrictions on aid have severely impacted the provision of lifesaving assistance and essential services to more than 100,000 people. This is exacerbated by the internet shutdown, in place in four townships in Rakhine State for 123 days now, depriving people of many rights and setting an alarming precedent that companies engaged in the information and communications technology sector must now account for.
In August, there was a sudden escalation of fighting in Shan State, following coordinated attacks by an alliance of ethnic armed organizations, including the Arakan Army. Villagers were trapped by the fighting, unable to reach safety, and humanitarian workers were reportedly deliberately targeted and killed. Talks last month between the Government’s National Reconciliation and Peace Commission and the armed organisations led to a decrease in fighting, but clashes erupted once again when the Tatmadaw’s declared unilateral ceasefire expired in late September.
Distinguished delegates,
Despite frequent conversations about the repatriation of Rohingya refugees, I remain resolute in my belief that it is unsafe for them to return to Myanmar until the fundamental circumstances leading to their expulsion are remedied. Last month, up to 30 Rohingyas were arrested because they had left Rakhine State. They were charged with criminal offences, denied access to lawyers and then convicted and sentenced by a court. Twenty-one of them were adults and were sentenced to two years in prison. Eight children were sent to a detention centre, while a five-year-old is in prison with his mother. This abhorrent treatment of these people is completely antithetical to Myanmar’s human rights and child rights obligations, and is indicative of the treatment that any returning Rohingya would face if they wished to exercise the freedom of movement that they are demanding. This is the living reality faced by the 600,000 Rohingya remaining in Myanmar.
In his statement to the General Assembly in September, the Union Minister for the Office of the State Counsellor compared the National Verification Card that is forcibly issued to Rohingyas in Myanmar, to the Green Card issued to permanent residents of the United States. The Rohingya reject the NVC because they say it brands them as foreigners and does not confer citizenship status or rights. The statement of the Minister confirms what the Rohingya believe: it is for foreigners, and it provides residency rights, like a Green Card. That is all. It will not resolve the denial of citizenship, nationality and rights of the Rohingya.
Mr Chair,
While people across Myanmar attempt to claim the rights to which they are entitled, they are consistently obstructed by structural apparatus that ensures their claims are not fulfilled. It is impunity that ensures that these structures perpetuate. The international community must accept that the Government’s Independent Commission of Enquiry does not represent a possible end to this impunity: it has not produced a single report after nearly 15 months.
Significant headway was made in the last year with the establishment and recent operationalization of the Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar, the International Criminal Court Prosecutor seeking to open an investigation into alleged crimes on the Bangladesh/Myanmar border, and the Gambia considering commencing proceedings at the International Court of Justice under the Genocide Convention. However, an end to impunity in Myanmar remains a lofty, far-off goal.
The international community must maintain its resolve and do more if that goal is to become within reach. It angers me to see here again that Member States have pursued their own economic interests in Myanmar at the expense of human rights. This must stop. You must not hesitate to impose targeted sanctions against the Tatmadaw’s companies and its commanders most responsible for serious violations, refer the entire situation to the International Criminal Court or establish an international tribunal, and work with civil society to develop transformative processes in accordance with the pillars of justice, truth, reparations and guarantees of non-recurrence.
This is my last address to this august Committee. I could never have anticipated that five years following my appointment, I would be calling out the perpetration of the most serious crimes under international law by the military, with the complicity of the civilian-controlled arms of government.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/22215-statement-ms-yanghee-lee-special-rapporteur-situation-human-rights-myanmar




Date: 22 October 2019
Title: Statement to the 74th session of the General Assembly  Marzuki Darusman, Chair of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar
Content: 22 October 2019
Mr. President,
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,
On behalf of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar, it is my honour to report to this Assembly as requested by the Human Rights Council.
Over the last year, we consolidated and updated our findings. We found that many of the same serious crimes under international law that we reported on last October, continue to be committed by Myanmar’s military, throughout the country impacting all the main ethnic communities. The near complete absence of accountability for past grave human rights violations, also confirms our previous conclusion that the cycle of impunity enables, and indeed, fuels, this reprehensible conduct on the part of the security forces.
Mr. President,
The blatant persecution of the Rohingya community in Myanmar continues unabated. The situation of some 600,000 Rohingya remaining in Rakhine State is largely unchanged. The underlying persecutory structural and systemic policies and practices continue.
We conclude that there is a strong inference of continued genocidal intent on the part of the State in relation to the Rohingya and there is a serious risk of genocide recurring. Myanmar is failing in its obligations under the Genocide Convention to prevent genocide, to investigate genocide and to enact effective legislation criminalizing and punishing genocide.
This finding is based on the fact that the the policies, laws, individuals and institutions that laid the groundwork for the brutal “clearance operations” in 2016 and 2017 remain in place and strong.
In complete disregard for the 2017 Rakhine Advisory Commission’s recommendations, also known as the “Kofi Annan Commission”, discriminatory laws, including the 1982 Citizenship Law, remain in effect. The Government’s insistence on a citizenship process based on the national verification cards is disingenuous. Instead of leading to inclusion through citizenship, these cards further exclude the Rohingya, many of whom historically were accepted as citizens of Myanmar and should again be recognized as such.
The situation of the internally displaced Rohingya population remains of utmost concern. Contrary to the Government’s claims, camps for internally displaced persons have not been closed. Those who live in them continue to face daily hardships including segregation from the rest of the communities. If anything, the situation of the Rohingya in Rakhine State has worsened, as they endure another year subjected to discrimination, segregation, movement restrictions and insecurity, without adequate access to livelihoods, land, basic services, including education and health care, or justice for past crimes committed against them by the Tatmadaw.
The return of close to one million Rohingya refugees to Rakhine State is simply impossible under the current circumstances. There is nowhere safe and viable for them to return to. Rohingya lands and villages have been destroyed, cleared, confiscated and built on, including new structures that resemble camps, with Rohingya forced labour. The Government’s repatriation plans are clearly inadequate.
Mr. President,
Serious violations of human rights and humanitarian law have been committed in a series of Tatmadaw attacks in northern Rakhine State and southern Chin State in the past months in the context of the conflict between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army. Civilians, mostly ethnic minorities are suffering the brunt of this latest conflict.  The Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army must stop the violence.
Regarding the situation in northern Myanmar, relative lulls in active hostilities in Kachin State are contrasted with intensified hostilities in Shan State, most notably since August. A number of attacks by parties to the conflict that have led to death and injury to the civilian populations. They need to be further investigated to ascertain responsibility. Sexual and gender-based violence against women and girls in northern Myanmar continues. The situation is volatile and is at risk of spiraling out of control.
Mr. President,
Last year this Assembly welcomed the Human Rights Council’s historic decision to mandate an Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar. I am pleased to report that the Mission has completed the transfer of its materials to the Investigative Mechanism in full compliance with the mandate given to us.  This includes 1,227 interviews with victims and witnesses from a total of 56,500 files.  We are confident that the materials we have shared, including a list of over one hundred and fifty people suspected of involvement in numerous international crimes, will serve as an important foundation upon which potential prosecution cases can be prepared.
Mr. President,
The Government of Myanmar bears the primary responsibility to protect its people from human rights violations. However, our findings have shown that it has failed in its duty to do so.
For this reason, the international community must remain seized of the situation in Myanmar. The Human Rights Council, the General Assembly and the Security Council must act to stop continued violations and prevent their re-occurrence.  Taking this final opportunity to report to this Assembly, I therefore come with the following three requests:
First, this Mission firmly believes that international monitoring and public reporting are essential to ensure fact-based advocacy. In order to act effectively, the international community must have reliable and verified information. For this reason, first, the Human Rights Council must mandate properly resourced, regular, robust and independent monitoring, investigations and reporting and the General Assembly should grant the necessary political and financial support to ensure the effectiveness of such public reporting mandates. This includes independent monitoring of the implementation of all recommendations.
Second, this Assembly should continue to monitor progress on accountability and recommend action in the absence of tangible results, in line with its mandate. There are a number of accountability initiatives underway at the international level that require support, including the investigation by the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court and plans for The Gambia on behalf of the Organisation for Islamic Cooperation, to pursue a case against Myanmar before the International Court of Justice for breaching the 1948 Genocide Convention. In the absence of a referral of the situation of Myanmar to the International Criminal Court by the Security Council, these initiatives are all the more important.
However, more is needed, as neither can address the full spectrum of the accountability deficit. For this reason, this Mission calls on Member States in this Assembly to consider additional measures, including pursuing the creation of an ad hoc tribunal. I also take this opportunity to call on Governments to indicate their willingness to exercise jurisdiction over the crimes under international law identified by this Mission. Member States should avail themselves of the work on the Myanmar Mechanism to support such endeavors.
Third, the Mission reiterates its view that in the absence of accountability at the domestic level, alternative avenues should be explored to deter human rights violations, including through targeted sanctions, financial and political disengagement from the Tatmadaw and a moratorium on investment and development in Rakhine State. The Mission’s reports, in particular its report on the Myanmar military’s economic interests provides a solid roadmap and guidance in this regard. I am pleased to note that our report, issued in August has already resulted in disengagement by Governments and businesses and I encourage more to follow suit. This Assembly should consider endorsing such disengagement, while recommending targeted sanctions and an arms embargo by the Security Council.
Mr. President,
The human rights catastrophe in Myanmar has not ended. The Government of Myanmar is defiant, and at best unconcerned. This is not the time for complacency. The situation remains urgent. Hundreds of thousands of victims rightfully expect no less than the continued commitment by the international community to bring about accountability and justice.
Thank you.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/22212-statement-74th-session-general-assembly-marzuki-darusman-chair-independent-international-fact




Date: 29 September 2019
Title: UN Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict Welcomes Myanmar’s Ratification of OPAC
Content: 29 September 2019
Myanmar’s Union Minister for International Cooperation, His Excellency Mr. U Kyaw Tin, deposited the accession instrument during a ceremony that took place on the margins of the 74th General Assembly at the UN headquarters in New York.

“The international engagement taken today by the Government of Myanmar to better protect its children is a welcome step. It is a commitment to put in place all the necessary measures to protect them from recruitment and use by both its armed forces and armed groups active in the country”, said Virginia Gamba.

Provisions on the demobilization and reintegration of all children under 18 and children presumed present in the ranks of Myanmar’s armed forces are also included in OPAC, a commitment already under implementation through the Security Council-mandated Joint Action Plan signed with the United Nations in 2012.

The Special Representative calls on the Government of Myanmar to swiftly translate this commitment into tangible measures for the protection of boys and girls and to end and prevent all six grave violations against children, including the killing and maiming of children and rape and other forms of sexual violence.

She further recommends the Government of Myanmar to refrain from enrolling children, including on a voluntary basis, into military academies.

Myanmar becomes the 169th State party to the Optional Protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict, as OPAC will mark its 20th anniversary next year.

###

Note to editors:

Adopted by the General Assembly on 25 May 2000, the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict entered into force on February 12th, 2002 and is a commitment that States will not recruit or conscript children under 18 to take part in hostilities.
Read more about the Optional Protocol here: 
https://childrenandarmedconflict.un.org/tools-for-action/opac/
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/19041-un-special-representative-children-and-armed-conflict-welcomes-myanmar%E2%80%99s-ratification-opac




Date: 29 September 2019
Title: The United Nations in Myanmar calls for internet resumption in areas under shutdown in Rakhine State
Content: 29 September 2019
Uninterrupted availability of the internet is indispensable and mobile internet services are a key enabler of the humanitarian and development work of the United Nations in Myanmar. The shutdown has therefore been a significant impediment to our work, complicating our ability to communicate in field locations, including with affected people. More broadly, the public in these areas, many of whom were already severely affected by the ongoing armed conflict in the area and by related constraints on humanitarian access, are facing additional difficulties related to the shutdown and in their daily lives.
The internet is critical for access to information and freedom of expression, which enable other fundamental human rights.
The shutdown is in contradiction to the principles and values of the Sustainable Development Goals, signed by the Government of Myanmar, which call for no one to be left behind, and has the potential to further undermine basic rights around access to food, education, health services and information.
The United Nations therefore calls on the Government of the Union of Myanmar to immediately resume internet services in the affected areas and to facilitate unhindered access for humanitarian organizations, in line with its obligations under international humanitarian law.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/19050-united-nations-myanmar-calls-internet-resumption-areas-under-shutdown-rakhine-state




Date: 18 September 2019
Title: UN expert implores Myanmar’s Suu Kyi: “open your eyes, listen, feel with your heart”
Content: 18 September 2019
GENEVA – A UN human rights expert has implored Myanmar’s civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi to ‘feel with her heart before it is too late’, saying that even if refugees wished to return they have little to go back to.
Yanghee Lee, the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, told the Human Rights Council the situation in Myanmar was of extreme concern, and was not what she and others had hoped to see nearly four years after the election of the National League for Democracy.
“I would like to ask the State Counsellor if the Myanmar that exists today is what she had truly aspired to bring about throughout the decades of her relentless fight for a free and democratic Myanmar? I implore you Madame State Counsellor to open your eyes, listen, feel with your heart, and please use your moral authority, before it is too late.”
Despite international condemnation, Lee said Myanmar had done nothing to dismantle the system of violence and persecution against Rohingya, and that the Rohingya who remain in Rakhine live in the same dire circumstances that they did prior to the events of August 2017.
“They are denied citizenship and recognition, face regular violence (including in the context of the ongoing conflict between the Arakan Army and the Tatmadaw), are unable to move freely and have little access to food, healthcare, education, livelihoods and services,” she said.
“Myanmar claims to have done what is necessary for the repatriation to be successful, and continues to blame Bangladesh for any delay,” she said. “However, information I have leads me to believe that the contrary is true.”
Lee noted that satellite imagery showed the development of 34 camps, but said their precise purpose was unclear. She said they may be intended to detain the remaining Rohingya population and those who decide to return.
She said satellite imagery shows the extent of development in northern Rakhine, including six military bases that had been built on the site of destroyed Rohingya villages. Of the 392 villages that were destroyed, there has been no attempt to reconstruct 320 of them, with 40 percent of villages having been completely razed to the ground. “Some of that demolition occurred in 2018 and some even in 2019, and all of this is completely antithetical to the claim that Myanmar is ready to receive the refugees. I further note that under Myanmar’s land laws, burned land reverts to Government ownership. In this situation, even if the refugees wished to return to Myanmar, what have they got to go back to?”
Lee added: “My belief is unwavering that accountability is necessary for the country as a whole, as well as being key to successful repatriation: it will bring about an end to the military’s violence against ethnic minorities in Myanmar and the possibility that the Rohingya could live safely in Rakhine.”
The Special Rapporteur also expressed concern about conflict between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army, and accusations of indiscriminate use of heavy artillery fire, gunfire and landmines in civilian areas and civilians were killed as a result.
She said that in August the conflict in northern Shan worsened after coordinated attacks by the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army, the Ta’ang National Liberation Army and the Arakan Army, known as the Three Brotherly Alliance. The attacks sparked intense fighting between the Tatmadaw and the ethnic armed organisations across inhabited areas and along main roads in northern Shan.
“Weeks of fighting were waged with disregard for the safety, welfare and rights of civilians.” Targeted and indiscriminate use of heavy artillery fire as well as landmines reportedly caused at least 17 civilian deaths and temporarily displaced an estimated 8,000 people in northern Shan, 1,600 of them remain displaced now.
ENDS
Ms. Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs and Independent Experts are part of the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/17575-un-expert-implores-myanmar%E2%80%99s-suu-kyi-%E2%80%9Copen-your-eyes-listen-feel-your-heart%E2%80%9D




Date: 16 September 2019
Title: Myanmar’s Rohingya Persecuted, Living under Threat of Genocide, UN Experts Say
Content: 16 September 2019
Media Statement: UN Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar
GENEVA – The 600,000 Rohingya remaining inside Myanmar face systematic persecution and live under the threat of genocide, the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar says in a new report.
“The threat of genocide continues for the remaining Rohingya,” said Marzuki Darusman, Chair of the Fact-Finding Mission, recalling that a year ago the Mission said it had found “genocidal acts” in Myanmar’s 2017 “clearance operations” that killed thousands and caused more than 740,000 Rohingya to flee for their lives to Bangladesh.
“Myanmar is failing in its obligation to prevent genocide, to investigate genocide and to enact effective legislation criminalizing and punishing genocide,” Darusman said.
The report, published today, will be presented on Tuesday to the Human Rights Council, which created the Mission in 2017. It says Myanmar’s ethnic groups have a common – but not identical – experience of marginalization, discrimination and brutality at the hands of the Myanmar armed forces, the Tatmadaw.
The report includes much new information about human rights abuses resulting from the Tatmadaw’s decades-long fight against the country’s minority ethnic groups. On the Tatmadaw’s conflict with the Arakan Army, the report says: “In an attempt to prevent civilian support to the insurgency, the Tatmadaw has cut the lifelines of ethnic Rakhine communities, restricting both people’s freedom of movement and humanitarian access” so that many cannot make a living or get food.
Detailing violations of international humanitarian law in northern Myanmar, the report finds “torture and ill-treatment” of suspected insurgents, and says sexual and gender-based violence by the Myanmar military “remains a prominent feature of the conflicts in Shan and Kachin States”.
Over the last two years, the Mission interviewed nearly 1,300 victims and eyewitnesses, and thoroughly documented human rights abuses in Rakhine, Chin, Shan, Kachin and Karen States.
“Shedding light on the grave human rights violations that occurred and still are occurring in Myanmar is very important but not sufficient,” said Mission Expert Radhika Coomaraswamy. “Accountability is important not only to victims but also to uphold the rule of law. It is also important to prevent repetition of the Tatmadaw’s past conduct and prevent future violations.”
The mission now has transferred the information it collected about serious crimes under international law to the UN’s new Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar. The Mechanism will build on this evidence and conduct its own investigations to support prosecutions in national, regional and international courts of perpetrators of atrocities in Myanmar.
Against a background of domestic impunity, the Mission says, “accountability can only be advanced by the international community.” The Mission says it has a confidential list of over 100 names, including Myanmar officials, suspected of being involved in genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, in addition to six generals it named publicly a year ago.
The report says the “deplorable” living conditions of an estimated 600,000 Rohingya still inside Myanmar have worsened in the last year, and continuing persecution is a way of life in Rakhine State. These facts underscore the impossibility of return for the nearly one million Rohingya refugees, mostly in Bangladesh.
In today’s report, the Fact-Finding Mission also says Myanmar incurs state responsibility under the prohibition against genocide and crimes against humanity, as well as for other violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law.
The finding of “state responsibility” means that Myanmar should be brought before the International Court of Justice (ICJ) for failing to honour its obligations under the 1948 Genocide Convention, one of few international human rights instruments it has ratified.
The report says the huge number of brutal human rights violations committed in Myanmar requires many avenues of justice. It called on the UN Security Council to refer Myanmar to the International Criminal Court or to establish an ad hoc tribunal, like the ones for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda.
The three Experts called on the international community to continue to shine a spotlight on Myanmar, to demand accountability and not to lose interest in continuing abuses there.
“The scandal of international inaction has to end,” said Mission Expert Christopher Sidoti. “Over the past 60 years the military has destroyed Myanmar, politically and economically. The peoples of Myanmar have suffered severely. The military operations against the Rohingya in 2017 − as exceptionally intense and brutal as they were − are part of a bigger, longer, more general pattern of extreme military violence. Unless the United Nations and the international community take effective action this time, this sad history is destined to be repeated.”
ENDS
The Experts will hold a news conference on 17 Sept. at 12:00 in the Palais des Nations, Room III.
Background
The Human Rights Council set up the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar (IIFFMM) in March 2017 to establish the facts and circumstances of the alleged human rights violations by military and security forces, and abuses, in Myanmar. This included arbitrary detention, torture and inhuman treatment, rape and other forms of sexual violence, extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary killings, enforced disappearances, forced displacement and unlawful destruction of property. In its efforts to ensure full accountability for perpetrators and justice for victims, it looked in depth at the situation in Rakhine State, and interviewed 827 Rohingya in other countries.
The Experts
Marzuki Darusman, lawyer and human rights campaigner and former Attorney-General of Indonesia, is chair of the fact-finding mission. The other two members are Radhika Coomaraswamy, a lawyer and former UN Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women and UN Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict; and Christopher Sidoti, an international human rights lawyer and former Australian Human Rights Commissioner.
Website of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar: https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/MyanmarFFM/Pages/Index.aspx
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/17572-myanmar%E2%80%99s-rohingya-persecuted-living-under-threat-genocide-un-experts-say




Date: 09 September 2019
Title: UN Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar Hands Over to Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar
Content: 09 September 2019
Media Advisory
GENEVA – The Independent International  Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar, set up by the Human Rights Council in 2017 (resolution 34/22), has handed over its evidence of serious crimes under international law to a new mechanism that is mandated by the Human Rights Council to follow up and prepare files for criminal prosecutions.
The Mission’s short report to the Human Rights Council, released on Monday, explains the preparations it made to consolidate and hand over to the Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar (IIMM) the extensive information it collected over the last two years. The Mission’s evidence has been preserved and transferred to the IIMM in a manner that ensures its integrity so it can be used in criminal trials in courts outside Myanmar.
This is an important step in achieving justice for victims and accountability for serious crimes. A more detailed report containing the Mission’s findings on the latest activities of Government security forces and conflict-related human rights developments in Myanmar will be released on 17 September when the Mission appears before the Human Rights Council.
The Mission’s three members – Chairman Marzuki Darusman and Experts Radhika Coomaraswamy and Christopher Sidoti – will hold a news conference in Geneva on 17 September.
ENDS
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?NewsID=24960&LangID=E
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/17571-un-fact-finding-mission-myanmar-hands-over-independent-investigative-mechanism-myanmar




Date: 06 September 2019
Title: Statement by the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ai, June Kunugi  on the situation in northern Shan State
Content: 06 September 2019
Yangon - I am gravely concerned by the recent sharp escalation of conflict in northern Shan State, where, since mid-August, a reported 17 civilians have been killed and 27 more injured, many of them women and children.  Road travel in the area is now unsafe and infrastructure has been damaged, and many people remain trapped in their villages, afraid to leave as the conflict intensifies around them.
On 31 August, five civilians were killed by mortar fire that landed in their village in Kutkai Township. Three of the dead were children. The armed conflict continues to exact a heavy toll, and I express my sincere condolences to families that have lost loved ones in this incident.
I urge all parties to the conflict to exercise maximum restraint to protect the civilian population from further harm and distress. Civilians must be protected and parties to the conflict must allow humanitarian organizations to access populations in need with food, water and other essential supplies and services.
This violence takes place amid a fragile, repeatedly-violated ceasefire. In welcoming the latest extension to the unilateral ceasefire by the Myanmar Military until 21 September, the United Nations hopes that this will effectively bring a halt to fighting. The United Nations encourages all parties to re-double their efforts to advance the Peace Process and offers its full support to finding a peaceful resolution to the conflict.
ENDS
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/16337-statement-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-ai-june-kunugi-situation-northern-shan-state




Date: 06 September 2019
Title: Myanmar: UN experts concerned by incommunicado detention and torture of ethnic Rakhine men and boys
Content: 06 September 2019
GENEVA (3 September 2019) - UN human rights experts* have expressed grave concerns about the use of incommunicado detention by the military in Myanmar, along with allegations of torture and ill-treatment and deaths in custody since the outbreak of armed conflict in December 2018 in northern Rakhine and Chin.
“The practice of incommunicado detention must be immediately brought to an end. Detainees’ right to a fair trial, including access to a lawyer, must be upheld,” the experts said. “There must be a credible independent investigation into the allegations of torture and inhuman treatment, deaths in custody, and reliance on forced confessions in cases involving Arakan Army-related allegations. All perpetrators of such violations must be held accountable.”
The experts cited the case of Naing Aung Htun, who was held in incommunicado detention from 8-21 August and allegedly given electric shocks by soldiers, after which he confessed to having ties to the Arakan Army insurgent group.
“We are distressed by the use of incommunicado detention where individuals are suspected of being associates of the Arakan Army,” the UN experts said. “It is essential for detained people to be able to communicate with the outside world, especially with family members and their lawyer. We are especially concerned because incommunicado detention may facilitate torture.”
The experts’ concern about the use of incommunicado detention is heightened because of the reports received regarding at least 15 deaths in custody of men alleged to be associates of the Arakan Army. The military has said that it is investigating these deaths, and the experts call on it to make the results of that investigation public and to hold any perpetrators accountable.
Naing Aung Htun was among inhabitants of Kyaukyan village in Buthidaung, northern Rakhine, as well as around 50 others displaced from neighbouring villages, who were rounded up by the Myanmar military on 8 August. Five men were arrested on suspicion of being associates of the Arakan Army and held incommunicado. They appeared in court in Buthidaung on 13 August when they were charged under section 50(a) of the Counter-Terrorism Law 2014 and four of them were released on 27 August.
Naing Aung Htun’s father said his son had sustained injuries to his face and was complaining of pain in his chest and back, headaches and being unable to chew. He received medical treatment in a civilian hospital before being transferred to a military hospital for three days, and was then returned to detention. He has been charged with an additional offence under section 52(a) of the Counter-Terrorism Law in court on 21 August. His father visited him in prison on 22 August.
“There must be an investigation into the allegation that Naing Aung Htun was tortured, and he must receive appropriate medical attention,” said the UN experts. “His right to a fair trial must be upheld, such that any confession he made as a result of torture should be excluded from evidence against him.”
The incommunicado detention of five men arrested in Kyaukyan village is not an isolated occurrence; the experts have received information about several other cases of incommunicado detention of Rakhine men and boys charged with terrorism offences. Eight Rakhine men were held incommunicado in Yangon for almost a month, and a ninth man remains in incommunicado detention without charge. In another case, four men from Ponnagyun in Rakhine were arrested on 27 July and remain in incommunicado detention, and six minors were also arrested and detained incommunicado for two weeks. In a separate case, one man has been held incommunicado on charges under the Counter-Terrorism Law since 5 August.
ENDS
UN experts: Ms. Yanghee Lee, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar; Ms. Agnes Callamard, Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions; and Mr. Nils Melzer, Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
The Special Rapporteurs and Independent Experts are part of the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter@UN_SPExperts.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/16335-myanmar-un-experts-concerned-incommunicado-detention-and-torture-ethnic-rakhine-men-and-boys




Date: 27 August 2019
Title: Press Release: “Thirty-two (32) children and young people released by the Myanmar Armed Forces”
Content: 27 August 2019
Yangon, 31 March 2019 – Today, the Government of Myanmar released seven children and 25 young people who were recruited under the age of 18 by the Armed Forces (also known as ‘Tatmadaw’). This is the first discharge to take place in 2019 and underlines the importance of protecting children in the context of armed conflict and within the peace process.
Since June 2012, when the Myanmar government signed a Joint Action Plan with the United Nations to prevent recruitment and use of children in the Tatmadaw, 956 children and young people have been released by the army. The co-chairs of the UN Country Task Force on Monitoring and Reporting (CTFMR) on Grave Violations against Children, Knut Ostby, the Acting United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator and June Kunugi, UNICEF Representative, welcome this latest discharge as ‘another encouraging step by the Government towards ending and preventing the recruitment and use of children within the Tatmadaw’.
The children and young people discharged will benefit from reintegration programmes to help them get back into civilian life, seize new opportunities for their own development and contribute to bringing lasting peace in Myanmar as productive citizens of their country.
The CTFMR commends the Government for the progress made towards completion of the Joint Action Plan, including through the centralization of the recruitment process, the establishment of more robust age assessment procedures, and the issuance of military directives prohibiting child recruitment and setting standards for military personnel conduct. Efforts have also been made to disseminate these standards to all military personnel and disciplinary measures are taken against those violating these directives.
The CTFMR continues to work with the Government to systematically end and prevent the recruitment and use of children in the Armed Forces in a sustainable manner. Remaining measures include strengthening the legal framework through the expected upcoming adoption of the Child Rights Law and the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict (which the Government signed in 2015), further reinforcing prevention mechanisms to avoid any new cases of underage recruitment, and systematically releasing suspected minors when they have no or inconsistent documentation to verify their age, in line with the principle of the “benefit of the doubt”.
In December 2018, the Government invited the Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary General on Children and Armed Conflict (SRSG CAAC) to facilitate training for Tatmadaw personnel and Government officials from relevant ministries on the six grave violations of children’s rights, with support from the CTFMR. Additional training on this topic is expected to take place in 2019. Another recent positive development was the establishment by Presidential Order in January 2019 of the inter-ministerial Committee for Preventing Grave Violations against Children in Armed Conflict.
The CTFMR looks forward to engaging with the newly established committee to start developing, signing and implementing joint action plans to prevent and respond to the two additional violations that Tatmadaw was listed for in the Secretary General’s 2017 Annual Report on Children and Armed Conflict, namely “killing and maiming” and “rape and other forms of sexual violence”.
The CTFMR remains committed to working closely with the Government in its efforts towards completion of the Joint Action Plan to sustainably end and prevent further recruitment and use of children by the Tatmadaw.
BACKGROUND
In addition to the Tatmadaw, there are seven non-state armed groups listed by the UN Secretary-General as being ‘persistent perpetrators’ in the recruitment and use of children in Myanmar. They are the:
1.   Democratic Karen Benevolent Army (DKBA)
2.   Kachin Independence Army (KIA)
3.   Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA)
4.   Karen National Liberation Army Peace Council (KNLA-PC)
5.   Karenni Army (KA)
6.   Shan State Army South (SSA-S)
7.   United Wa State Army (UWSA)
ABOUT THE UN COUNTRY TASKFORCE ON MONITORING AND REPORTING (CTFMR) ON GRAVE VIOLATIONS AGAINST CHILDREN
United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 1612 mandates the UN to establish UN-led CTFMRs in countries where there is verified evidence that Grave Violations against children are being committed by parties to a conflict, either by armed forces and/or by armed groups. The CTFMR is tasked with establishing a Monitoring and Reporting Mechanism (MRM) which documents, verifies and reports to the UNSC on Grave Violations against children.  The six Grave Violations that are monitored and reported are:
·      killing or maiming of children
·      recruitment and use of children in armed forces and armed groups
·      attacks against schools or hospitals
·      rape or other grave sexual violence
·      abduction of children
·      denial of humanitarian access for children
The CTFMR is also mandated to provide a coordinated response to such grave violations. The CTFMR was established in Myanmar in 2007 and is co-Chaired by the UN Resident Coordinator and the UNICEF Representative in Yangon. The CTFMR in Myanmar includes relevant UN agencies (ILO, UNFPA, UNHCR, UNICEF, UN OCHA, the UN RCO and WFP), Save the Children and World Vision.
HOTLINE
In November 2013, UNICEF supported the Myanmar Government to launch a nation-wide campaign to raise awareness of its population on its commitment to end recruitment and use of children by Tatmadaw.  As part of this campaign, and on behalf of CTFMR, UNICEF and World Vision are managing a hotline with two phone numbers (09-421166701 and 09-421166702) where anyone can alert and report suspected cases of children being recruited or used by the Tatmadaw. The hotline is operational 24 hours per day, seven days per week.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14863-press-release-%E2%80%9Cthirty-two-32-children-and-young-people-released-myanmar-armed-forces%E2%80%9D




Date: 27 August 2019
Title: UN Fact-Finding Mission to Hold Press Briefing in Jakarta
Content: 27 August 2019
GENEVA  – The UN Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar will hold a press conference in Jakarta on 5 August 2019 to brief the media about their latest work, including their upcoming report on the economic interests of Myanmar’s military.
The briefing will be led by Mission Chair Marzuki Darusman and fellow Expert Christopher Sidoti, who are in Indonesia as part of a working visit. It will take place Monday at 12:00 noon Jakarta time (07:00 Geneva time) at the United Nations, Menara Thamrin Building, Papua Room, Level 7, JL MH Thamrin Kav 3, Jakarta, 10250.
The full report, as well as infographics, audio-visual materials, and summary translations in the Myanmar language, will be posted Monday at 12:00 noon Jakarta time (07:00 a.m. Geneva time) on the Fact-Finding Mission’s Web page: https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/MyanmarFFM/Pages/Index.aspx
The Mission is scheduled to present its final report to the UN Human Rights Council on 16 September 2019.
ENDS
Background
The Human Rights Council on 24 March 2017 decided (through Resolution A/HRC/RES/34/22) to dispatch urgently an independent international fact-finding mission, appointed by the President of the Human Rights Council, to establish the facts and circumstances of the alleged recent human rights violations by military and security forces, and abuses, in Myanmar, in particular in Rakhine State, including but not limited to arbitrary detention, torture and inhuman treatment, rape and other forms of sexual violence, extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary killings, enforced disappearances, forced displacement and unlawful destruction of property, with a view to ensuring full accountability for perpetrators and justice for victims.
The Experts
Marzuki Darusman, lawyer and human rights campaigner and former Attorney-General of Indonesia, is chair of the fact-finding mission. The other two members of the fact-finding mission are Radhika Coomaraswamy, a lawyer and former UN Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women and UN Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict; and Christopher Sidoti, an international human rights lawyer and former Australian Human Rights Commissioner.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14835-un-fact-finding-mission-hold-press-briefing-jakarta




Date: 27 August 2019
Title: Media Advisory – Special Rapporteur on situation of human rights in Myanmar to visit Thailand and Malaysia
Content: 27 August 2019
The Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, Yanghee Lee, will visit Thailand and Malaysia from 8-18 July 2019.
“Despite Myanmar’s position, I will continue to reach out and seek to engage to provide the Government with assistance on human rights issues,” the Special Rapporteur said. Myanmar refuses to cooperate with the Special Rapporteur, and will not allow her access to the country.
Lee will hold a news conference at 4 pm on 18 July at the Marriott Hotel in Kuala Lumpur. Access will be strictly limited to journalists. The Special Rapporteur will present her findings and recommendations to the 74th session of the General Assembly in New York in October 2019.
ENDS
Ms. Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14844-media-advisory-%E2%80%93-special-rapporteur-situation-human-rights-myanmar-visit-thailand-and




Date: 27 August 2019
Title: Myanmar: Expert Calls for Continued Pressure as Situation Reaches “Human Rights Crisis”
Content: 27 August 2019
GENEVA  – A UN human rights expert implored the international community to maintain pressure on Myanmar amid a deterioration of human rights in the country, citing concerns about possible war crimes in Rakhine State, the treatment of minorities, the environment and freedom of expression.
The Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, Yanghee Lee, addressed the Human Rights Council in Geneva and welcomed the Government’s reforms to the accounting requirements of extractive industry State-owned economic enterprises. “This is an opportunity for the Government to improve transparency in the sector, and to ensure that departments tasked with enforcing environmental and social safeguards are properly resourced,” the expert said.
However, Lee expressed serious concerns about the lack of enforcement of adequate environmental safeguards in natural resource extraction and associated industries.
In Hpakant, a pool of mine waste burst in April, flooding a nearby open pit mine and killing 54 workers. Pollution caused by the coal-powered Alpha Cement Factory in Mandalay led to protests that were violently suppressed by authorities. Independent scientific testing of air, water and hair samples taken near the coal-powered Tigyit Power Plant in Shan State found the plant to be leaching dangerous levels of toxic heavy metals into the surrounding environment.
Lee told the Council that freedom of expression continued to be stifled through draconian laws used to suppress criticism of the Tatmadaw, particularly in relation to reporting on the conflict with the Arakan Army in northern Rakhine State and parts of southern Chin State. The conflict has continued over the past few months and the impact on civilians is devastating, Lee said.
Acts of the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army may amount to war crimes, the Special Rapporteur said. Indiscriminate attacks in and around villages as well as targeting of civilians and civilian objects, including monasteries hosting IDPs, has left scores of civilians wounded and dead. “I again call on all parties to uphold international humanitarian law and respect human rights law,” said Lee.
Lee said that Rohingya refugees in Cox’s Bazar are being subjected to a human rights crisis, responsibility for which lies with Myanmar. It is entirely Myanmar’s responsibility to bring about all necessary conditions for all the people they forcibly drove out to return and they are entirely failing to do so, she said.
“So long as impunity for alleged atrocity crimes prevails, we will continue to bear witness to flagrant violations of rights perpetrated against ethnic minority populations in the name of counterinsurgency, entrenching grievances and prolonging insecurity and instability,” the Special Rapporteur said.
Lee repeated her call that the situation of Myanmar be referred to the International Criminal Court, and that alternatively the international community establish an independent tribunal in which perpetrators of international crimes may be tried.
“It is incumbent on the Security Council to find a way to put differences aside and unite in relation to Myanmar by coming out with a strong resolution,” said Lee. “The situation is not improving, and serious violations continue to take place on a regular basis.”
ENDS
Ms. Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14845-myanmar-expert-calls-continued-pressure-situation-reaches-%E2%80%9Chuman-rights-crisis%E2%80%9D




Date: 27 August 2019
Title: Press Release: UNODC‐supported Alternative Development Coffee from Myanmar launched in French Parliament
Content: 27 August 2019
Paris (France) – In a pivotal moment for Myanmar’s burgeoning specialty coffee industry, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and French coffee company Malongo today launched a new line of high‐quality coffee, Shan Mountain Coffee, in the French Parliament.
The first tasting and presentation of Shan Mountain Coffee took place at the Presidential Hall of the Parliament in presence of the President of the National Assembly Richard Ferrand and dozens of other prominent guests. At the same time, the sales of Shan Mountain Coffee opened in Malongo stores in Paris and Nice.

The Shan Mountain Coffee is ethically sourced in conflict‐ridden Shan State in eastern Myanmar. Shan State produces nearly 90 per cent of opium cultivated in Myanmar, the second largest opium exporter in the world (after Afghanistan).
The Shan Mountain Coffee is grown by a UNODC‐supported Green Gold Cooperative formed by almost 1,000 farmers in Shan State who used to cultivate opium poppy. The strategic partnership between Malongo, the Green Gold Cooperative and UNODC is a key to bringing peace, prosperity and environmental sustainability to Shan State which is one of the top opium poppy cultivation areas in the world.
“UNODC is proud to have been part of this exciting initiative that developed a brand new premium coffee product as a means for reducing opium production in Myanmar,” said Troels Vester, UNODC Country Manager in Myanmar. “Judging by its success here in French Parliament, the Shan Mountain Coffee is now set to make it in France and encourage others in Myanmar to switch from opium to growing alternatives crops.”
The emergence of Myanmar as a coffee producer is supported by UNODC’s Alternative Development Programme, co‐financed by two main donors, Finland and Germany, and with the additional support of Switzerland, that is giving resources directly to the Cooperative.
The programme’s objective to develop sustainable livelihood alternatives for opium growing communities has enabled participating farmers to independently cultivate, refine and commercialize high quality coffee that can be exported to one of the most competitive international markets. The establishment of the farmer‐run Green Gold Cooperative ensures that these farmers will indeed see the fruits of their labour for many years to come.
“In Shan State, this programme has not only provided livelihoods and increased confidence in governance, but also promoted environmental sustainability, land tenure rights, and contributed to creating an enabling environment for peace,” said Miwa Kato, Director of Operations for UNODC. “The partnership between the Malongo Coffee company and the Green Gold Cooperative in Myanmar demonstrates how both public and private interests can merge to benefit small farmer communities,” she added.
“Malongo is a private company, our involvement in such a project is not about charity or helping coffee producers, it is about business. But we want to set up another kind of business where the added value is shared between the actors of the supply chain, where producers can live with dignity from their work, where consumers are faithful and satisfied with the quality,” said Jean‐Pierre Blanc, Director General of Malongo Coffee Company.
Green Gold began the partnership with Malongo to bring to market alternative development coffee in 2017. Under this long‐term (five year) partnership agreement, Malongo will buy up to 600 tonnes of coffee per year from more than one thousand beneficiary farmers.
Farmers cultivating illicit drug crops are usually unable to obtain sufficient income from legal activities and are among the most marginalized in society, with profits fueling protracted armed conflict in Myanmar’s peripheral regions. Alternative development has been one of the most successful approaches to providing these farmers with more stable, sustainable livelihoods.
Nang San Hlaing is a beneficiary farmer from Taung Nauk village in Southern Shan State. Reflecting on her area’s transition from conflict to peace, she illustrated the impact of alternative development in creating an environment of peace: “After we joined the UNODC coffee programme in 2015, Myanmar soldiers and ethnic armed groups make fewer visits to our village. We enjoy a more peaceful life now and would like to thank UNODC for working in our village and helping poor farmers to plant coffee for a sustainable income.”
Women play a crucial role in this programme participating as farmers, village level
committee members and representatives in the governing bodies of Green Gold. Although there have been important advances, women still face challenges as farmers and community leaders, role models and mothers. Nang Lone, ethnic Shan woman from Taunt Lan village (Loilem township) expresses her feelings related to her participation in the programme: “People may think differently about my role in my family, however I must step up for my children’s future. And for my community.”
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14865-press-release-unodc%E2%80%90supported-alternative-development-coffee-myanmar-launched-french




Date: 27 August 2019
Title: Note to Correspondents from RC ai Knut Ostby
Content: 27 August 2019
The Acting Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Knut Ostby is deeply concerned about new reports of fighting between the Arakan Army and Myanmar security forces which continue to cause civilian casualties and displacement of communities in Rakhine State.
Mr. Ostby urges all sides of the conflict to ensure the protection of civilians, resolve differences through peaceful means, uphold their responsibilities under International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights Law, including the preservation of sites of cultural heritage.
Mr. Ostby calls for effective humanitarian access to populations in need of aid, particularly the children, women, elderly and other affected people. The United Nations is in contact with the Myanmar authorities and stands ready to continue with the humanitarian support to the affected civilian populations.
Yangon, 19 March 2019
###
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14866-note-correspondents-rc-ai-knut-ostby




Date: 24 August 2019
Title: Note to Correspondents on Mining Tragedy in Hpakant, Kachin
Content: 24 August 2019
Acting UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Knut Ostby is deeply saddened by the terrible loss of life at a mining site in Hpakant Township in Kachin State. Mr. Ostby extends his sincere condolences to the families of the victims and wishes the injured speedy recovery. Mr. Ostby calls for urgent action towards implementation of the new Occupational Safety and Health law, particularly in high risk sectors such as mining. The UN in Myanmar through the International Labour Organization is committed to continue to support the country in putting in place measures aiming to improve occupational safety and health for all.
ကခ်င္ျပည္နယ္ ဖားကန္႔ျမိဳ႔နယ္အတြင္း ေက်ာက္မ်က္လုပ္ကြက္ရွိ ႏံြကန္ေပါက္က်မႈျဖစ္စဥ္၌ အသက္ဆံုးရွံဳးခဲ႔ရမႈမ်ားအတြက္ ကုလသမဂၢဌာေနညွိႏိႈင္းေရးမွဴးႏွင့္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆိုင္ရာညွိႏိႈင္းေရးမွဴး (ယာယီ) မစၥတာ ခနုသ္ ေအာ႔စဘီမွ မ်ားစြာစိတ္မေကာင္းျဖစ္ရပါသည္။ မစၥတာ ေအာ႔စဘီအေနျဖင့္ အသက္ဆံုးရွံဳးခဲ႔ရသူမ်ား၏ မိသားစု၀င္မ်ားႏွင့္ ထပ္တူ၀မ္းနည္းေၾကကြဲရေၾကာင္းႏွင့္ ဒဏ္ရာရရွိသူမ်ားလည္း အျမန္ဆံုးျပန္လည္ ေကာင္းမြန္လာေစေၾကာင္း ဆုမြန္ေကာင္းေတာင္းပါသည္။ လုပ္ငန္းခြင္ေဘးအႏၲရာယ္ ကင္းရွင္းေရႏွင့္က်န္းမာေရးဆိုင္ရာ ဥပေဒသစ္ကို အထူးသျဖင့္ သတၲဳတူးေဖာ္ေရးကဲ႔သို႔ အႏၲရာယ္မ်ားသည္႔ က႑မ်ားတြင္ အေရးၾကီးအျဖစ္ အလ်င္အျမန္ အေကာင္အထည္ေဖာ္ရန္ မစၥတာ ေအာ႔စဘီမွ တိုက္တြန္းပါသည္။ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံရွိ ကုလသမဂၢအေနျဖင့္ အျပည္ျပည္ဆိုင္ရာ အလုပ္သမားအဖြဲ႔မွတဆင့္ လုပ္ငန္းခြင္ဆိုင္ရာေဘးအႏၲရာယ္ကင္းရွင္းေရးႏွင့္က်န္းမာေရးကို ႏိုင္ငံေတာ္မွ ပိုမိုေကာင္းမြန္ေစရန္ ဦးတည္လုပ္ေဆာင္ေနသည္႔ အစီအမံမ်ားအား ဆက္လက္ပံ႔ပိုးေပးသြားမည္ျဖစ္သည္။
Yangon, 24 April 2019
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14860-note-correspondents-mining-tragedy-hpakant-kachin




Date: 22 August 2019
Title: UN Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar Calls for Justice for Victims of Sexual and Gender-based Violence
Content: 22 August 2019
UN Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar Calls for Justice for Victims of Sexual and Gender-based Violence
Myanmar Language (PDF)
NEW YORK (22 August 2019) – The U.N. Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar said the country’s military must stop using sexual and gender-based violence to terrorise and punish ethnic minorities. The Mission said the brutal tactic was still being employed in Kachin and Shan states, and was so severe in Rakhine State, during the “clearance operations” of 2017, that it was a factor indicating the Myanmar military’s genocidal intent to destroy the Rohingya population.
The Mission made its conclusions in a new report, released Thursday in New York, that soldiers routinely and systematically employed rape, gang rape and other violent and forced sexual acts against women, girls, boys, men and transgender people in blatant violation of international human rights law.
“Extreme physical violence, the openness in which it is conducted … reflects a widespread culture of tolerance towards humiliation and the deliberate infliction of severe physical and mental pain or suffering on civilians,” the report said.
Marzuki Darusman, chair of the Fact-Finding Mission, said, “The international community must hold the Myanmar military to account for the tremendous pain and suffering it has inflicted on persons of all genders across the country.”
The Mission conducted interviews with hundreds of survivors and witnesses of sexual violence in Kachin and Shan States in the north, and in Rakhine State in the west, where the military’s “clearance operations” that began on 25 August 2017 led to more than 700,000 Rohingya fleeing to Bangladesh. On the second anniversary of the beginning of the operations, this report is an important reminder of the continuing need for accountability.
Mission Expert Radhika Coomaraswamy said the findings also “address a gap that usually surrounds sexual and gender-based reports – cases of sexual violence against men and boys and transgender people.”
“The silence must be broken,” she said.
The Mission said only one conclusion could be drawn from the accounts it had obtained: sexual violence perpetrated by the military was “part of a deliberate, well-planned strategy to intimidate, terrorise and punish a civilian population.”
Myanmar’s military, known as the Tatmadaw, demonstrated its genocidal intent against the Rohingya population “through the widespread and systematic killing of women and girls, the systematic selection of women and girls of reproductive ages for rape, attacks on pregnant women and on babies, the mutilation and other injuries to their reproductive organs, the physical branding of their bodies by bite marks on their cheeks, neck, breast and thigh, and so severely injuring victims that they may be unable to have sexual intercourse with their husbands or to conceive and leaving them concerned that they would no longer be able to have children,” the report said.
The majority of assaults reported were directed at women and girls who were beaten, burned with cigarettes, slashed with knives, raped and held as sexual slaves on military bases. The report also documents cases of rape, forced nudity and the sexual torture of men and boys.
“For the first time in such a UN report, we are clearly highlighting violence against transgender people,” said Mission Expert Christopher Sidoti. “We spoke to transgender Rohingya women, and found they are victimised twice, because they are Rohingya and because they are transgender.”
The report also documents rape, gang rape and other sexual violence, sometimes deadly, against boys and men. In one incident in Kachin State’s Myitkyina Township, Myanmar Intelligence Office agents forced two male detainees to undress and rape each other. The agents reportedly laughed as they watched, asking “Are you enjoying yourselves?”
The report also examined how gender inequality within Myanmar and within ethnic communities enables sexual and gender-based violence.
The Mission said it felt compelled to update the findings it made in an earlier 2018 report to the Human Rights Council to underscore the importance of accountability for perpetrators.
Many of these acts amount to crimes under international law, including war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of genocide. Yet, the Myanmar Government has failed to cease, prevent and take action against sexual and gender-based violence in the country, or hold those responsible to account.
With hundreds of thousands of Rohingya refugees still trapped in Bangladesh, too fearful to return home, the report should serve as an important reminder of the need for accountability of perpetrators and justice for victims. It makes a call to action to the Government of Myanmar, the Security Council and the international community to make accountability for these grave crimes an urgent priority.
The Fact-Finding Mission will present its final report to the UN Human Rights Council in September 2019.
ENDS

Background
The Human Rights Council on 24 March 2017 decided (through Resolution A/HRC/RES/34/22) to dispatch urgently an independent international fact-finding mission, to be appointed by the President of the Human Rights Council, to establish the facts and circumstances of the alleged recent human rights violations by military and security forces, and abuses, in Myanmar, in particular in Rakhine State, including but not limited to arbitrary detention, torture and inhuman treatment, rape and other forms of sexual violence, extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary killings, enforced disappearances, forced displacement and unlawful destruction of property, with a view to ensuring full accountability for perpetrators and justice for victims.
The Experts
Marzuki Darusman, lawyer and human rights campaigner and former Attorney-General of Indonesia, is chair of the fact-finding mission. The other two members of the fact-finding mission are Radhika Coomaraswamy, a lawyer and former UN Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women and UN Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict; and Christopher Sidoti, an international human rights lawyer and former Australian Human Rights Commissioner.
Website of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar: 
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/MyanmarFFM/Pages/Index.aspx
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14831-un-fact-finding-mission-myanmar-calls-justice-victims-sexual-and-gender-based-violence




Date: 21 August 2019
Title: UN Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar to Hold Press Conference in New York on Sexual and Gender-based Violence
Content: 21 August 2019
GENEVA – The UN Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar will hold a press conference in New York on 22 August 2019 to brief the media about their latest report on sexual and gender-based violence. The full report will be released the same day.
Mission Expert Radhika Coomaraswamy will present the report’s findings and take questions from reporters.
The press conference Thursday will take place at 11:00 a.m. in New York at the United Nations, press briefing room S-237.
The briefing can be viewed online at: http://webtv.unorg.
The full report will be posted Thursday at 11:00 am in New York (17:00 in Geneva and 22:00 in Bangkok) on the Fact-Finding Mission’s Web page: https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/HRC/MyanmarFFM/Pages/Index.aspx
The Mission is scheduled to present its final report to the UN Human Rights Council on 16 September 2019.
ENDS
Background: The Human Rights Council on 24 March 2017 decided (through ResolutionA/HRC/RES/34/22) to dispatch urgently an independent international fact-finding mission, appointed by the President of the Human Rights Council, to establish the facts and circumstances of the alleged recent human rights violations by military and security forces, and abuses, in Myanmar, in particular in Rakhine State, including but not limited to arbitrary detention, torture and inhuman treatment, rape and other forms of sexual violence, extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary killings, enforced disappearances, forced displacement and unlawful destruction of property, with a view to ensuring full accountability for perpetrators and justice for victims.
The Experts: Marzuki Darusman, lawyer and human rights campaigner and former Attorney-General of Indonesia, is chair of the fact-finding mission. The other two members of the fact-finding mission are Radhika Coomaraswamy, a lawyer and former UN Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women and UN Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict; and Christopher Sidoti, an international human rights lawyer and former Australian Human Rights Commissioner.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14832-un-fact-finding-mission-myanmar-hold-press-conference-new-york-sexual-and-gender-based




Date: 19 August 2019
Title: Statement by the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator a.i. Knut Ostby marking World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2019
This year we pay special tribute to the women who make up an estimated 40 per cent of the global humanitarian work force, providing food, water, healthcare and other essentials to those in greatest need, whether because of natural disasters or armed conflict.
Yangon - Today we mark World Humanitarian Day, an annual event that honours humanitarian workers, who often risk their own lives to help save and improve the lives of others caught up in crisis.
This year we pay special tribute to the women who make up an estimated 40 per cent of the global humanitarian work force, providing food, water, healthcare and other essentials to those in greatest need, whether because of natural disasters or armed conflict.
Myanmar is a country with endless potential, undergoing rapid change, which continues to grapple with complex humanitarian challenges. It is among the most disaster-prone countries in the world, with climate change expected to contribute to even more frequent cyclones and more destructive flooding, and with major cities along earthquake fault lines.
Parts of the country have experienced near-continuous armed conflict since independence, and at least one quarter of a million people are currently internally displaced from their homes in Kachin, Shan, Rakhine and Kayin states. In addition, years of successive waves of violence in Rakhine spiked in August 2017, triggering an exodus of more than 740,000 men, women and children who fled across the border into Bangladesh, where nearly 1 million are now refugees. Since the beginning of this year, Rakhine has seen a major escalation of a separate conflict, forcing tens of thousands of other people from their homes.
With more than 900,000 people in need of humanitarian assistance in Myanmar in 2019, humanitarian workers play a critical role across the country, saving lives, restoring dignity and providing hope. And time and time again we see that it is local communities and local organizations that serve as the first line of response, often with women at the forefront.
This includes, for example, women working as volunteer teachers in the most challenging circumstances in IDP camps, providing basic education for children where formal schooling no longer exists. It refers to the women first responders in Mon State in recent weeks, supporting evacuations and providing comfort, sometimes taking in relatives and even strangers who have fled nearby villages engulfed by floodwaters. There may be no clearer demonstration of the generosity and resilience of the Myanmar people, and the United Nations and our NGO partners are proud to work side-by-side with them.
Today, we reiterate our appreciation for the bravery and commitment of humanitarian workers in Myanmar and around the world, and highlight in particular the essential role women play in assisting and protecting those in greatest need. We recall that humanitarian workers themselves should be respected and protected, and that their life-saving work should be facilitated by all.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14833-statement-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-ai-knut-ostby-marking-world-humanitarian-day




Date: 30 July 2019
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesman for the Secretary-General on the 2018 Children and Armed Conflict Report
Content: 30 July 2019
The Secretary-General is disheartened at the increasing level of grave violations committed against children, as documented in the 2018 Annual Report on Children and Armed Conflict. Last year, the United Nations verified more than 24,000 grave violations committed against children, while thousands of others were pending verification due to resources and access constraints. In the reporting period, girls and boys have again borne the brunt of new and protracted crisis and endured such violations as killing and maiming, recruitment and use by armed forces and armed groups, abduction, sexual violence, attacks on schools and hospitals and the denial of humanitarian access.
The Secretary-General is particularly appalled at the number of children killed or maimed in the 20 country situations on the Children and Armed Conflict agenda last year, which has reached more than 12,000 boys and girls, an unprecedented level.
The Secretary-General urges all parties to conflict to strengthen their engagement with the United Nations and reminds them of their responsibility to protect children.  Parties must ensure compliance with their obligations under international law, including the special respect and protection accorded to children affected by armed conflict by international humanitarian law.  In the conduct of hostilities, parties to conflict must refrain from directing attacks against civilians, including children, and civilian objects. He reiterates that peace remains the best protection for children affected by armed conflict and calls on all parties and those who can influence them to work towards political agreements and solutions to resolve existing conflicts.
The Secretary-General commends the engagement of his Special Representative, her office and each country team with parties to conflict to end and prevent grave violations, resulting in tangible measures benefitting children in several contexts.
New York, 30 July 2019
Statement attributable to the Spokesman for the Secretary-General on the 2018 Children and Armed Conflict Report
For the text of the full report, please go to the link:
https://www.un.org/sg/sites/www.un.org.sg/files/atoms/files/26-07-2019_SG_CAAC_report_advance_copy_0.pdf
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14837-statement-attributable-spokesman-secretary-general-2018-children-and-armed-conflict-report




Date: 18 July 2019
Title: Communication to the press after the official visit of the UN Special Envoy of the Secretary General on Myanmar, Christine Schraner-Burgener, to Myanmar from 09.-18.07.2019
Content: 18 July 2019
Nay Pyi Taw - The Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Myanmar travelled to the country from 9 to 18 July. In Yangon, she met with representatives of civil society, think-tanks, eminent personalities and INGOs, the UN country team and the diplomatic corps. She also met with religious leaders, members of the Union Enterprise for Humanitarian Assistance and Development (UEHRD) and members of the former Rakhine Advisory Commission.
In Rakhine she travelled to Myebon and to Sittwe and visited IDP camps from both Rakhine and Muslim communities, as well as resettled Rakhine persons. She met with the representatives of civil society, political parties and members of parliament and the Rakhine State government. She also had discussions with the INGOs and with representatives of the resident UN agencies in Sittwe.
In Nay Pyi Taw, she met with various government officials, including the State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi; the Union Minister for Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement Dr. Win Myat Aye; the Union Minister of Labour, Immigration and Population U Thein Swe; the Union Minister of Education Dr. Myo Thein Gyi; the Union Minister of the State Counsellor’s Office U Kyaw Tint Swe; the Union Minister of International Cooperation U Kyaw Tin, and the Vice-Senior General Soe Win of the Tatmadaw . She also met with members of parliament, in particular, U Aye Tha Aung, the Deputy Speaker of the Amyotha Hluttaw  (Upper House) in his capacity as Chair of the Committee for Supporting Peace and Stability in Rakhine State (CSPSRS) together with some members of the Committee, and the Public Complaints Committees of the Amyotha Hluttaw and of the Pyithu Hluttaw (Lower House).
While welcoming the fact that the IDP Camp Closure Strategy had been finalised and was pending distribution, she regretted that for instance in Myebon, where over 80% of the IDPs have citizenship, their freedom of movement remained very limited. In her discussions, issues of security and divisions within and between the communities were raised. She repeatedly underlined the need to overcome them.
The meeting that she organised with over 40 women from different economic, social and political backgrounds all over Rakhine was a welcome interaction, where there were common but also differing experiences. She hopes to be able to continue organising such encounters to allow the members of the communities to meet and engage with each other, as a way of mending their fragile trust. Over all, she heard that in certain areas the interaction between the communities was slowly improving and encouraged this to continue.
The Special Envoy’s mission focused on women, access to education and trust-building, as a path towards creating more harmonious cohabitation within Myanmar and contributing to conditions that would allow for the return of IDPs and refugees in safety, dignity and of their own free will to the places of their choice.
In Nay Pyi Taw, she had cordial and frank exchanges with a broad range of counterparts. The Special Envoy also briefed on her recent interactions with the General Assembly and the Security Council in New York.
She raised the question of access to tertiary education for poor students in Rakhine State and the need for continued engagement towards a ceasefire between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army. She also stressed the importance for all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law. She underlined a need for dialogue amongst and between all stakeholders: the Union Government, the Rakhine State Government, local political parties, civil society as well as the IDPs and refugees in Bangladesh, as she sensed a growing polarisation.
On the eve of the upcoming second anniversary of the events leading to the exodus of refugees to Bangladesh, she called for constructive engagement and efforts to reach out to the whole population. She also urged the government to stand strong against discrimination, hate-speech and the misuse of religion for political reasons. ENDS

ကုသလမဂ္ဂအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်၏ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံဆိုင်ရာ အထူးကိုယ်စားလှယ် Christine Schraner-Burgener ၏ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံသို့ ဇူလိုင်လ ၉ ရက်နေ့မှ ၁၈ ရက်နေ့အထိ ခရီးစဉ်အပြီး သတင်းမီဒီယာသို့ အကြောင်းကြားစာ
နေပြည်တော်။ ၂၀၁၉ ခုနှစ် ဇူလိုင်လ ၁၈ ရက်နေ့။
ကုသလမဂ္ဂအတွင်းရေးမှူးချုပ်၏ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံဆိုင်ရာ အထူးကိုယ်စားလှယ်သည် မြန်မာနိုင်ငံသို့ ဇူလိုင်လ ၉ ရက်နေ့မှ ၁၈ ရက်နေ့အထိ သွားရောက်ခဲ့သည်။ သူမသည် ရန်ကုန်မြို့တွင် အရပ်ဖက်အဖွဲ့အစည်းများမှ ကိုယ်စားလှယ်များ၊ တွေးခေါ်မျှော်မြင်ရေးအဖွဲ့များ (think-tanks)၊ ထင်ရှားကျော်ကြားသောပုဂ္ဂိုလ်များ၊ အစိုးရမဟုတ်သော အဖွဲ့အစည်းများ၊ ကုလသမဂ္ဂ အဖွဲ့အစည်းများနှင့် သံတမန်တို့နှင့် တွေ့ဆုံခဲ့သည်။ ထို့အပြင် ဘာသာရေးခေါင်းဆောင်များ၊ ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်တွင်း လူသားချင်းစာနာမှုအကူအညီအထောက်အပံ့ ပေးရေး၊ ပြန်လည်နေရာချထားရေး၊ ဖွံ့ဖြိုးရေးစီမံကိန်း (UEHRD)နှင့် ယခင် ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်ဆိုင်ရာ အကြံပေး ကော်မရှင် အဖွဲ့ဝင်များတို့နှင့်ပါ တွေ့ဆုံခဲ့သည်။
ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်တွင် သူမသည် မြေပုံမြို့နှင့် စစ်တွေမြို့တို့ကို သွားရောက်ခဲ့ပြီး၊ ရခိုင်နှင့် မွတ်စလင် လူမှု အသိုင်းအဝိုင်း နှစ်ခုစလုံးမှ နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာသူများ နေထိုင်ရာစခန်းများသို့ သွားရောက်ခဲ့သည့်အပြင်၊ ပြန်လည် နေရာချထားသော ရခိုင်လူမျိုးများကိုလည်း တွေ့ဆုံခဲ့သည်။  ထို့အပြင် သူမသည် အရပ်ဖက် အဖွ့ဲအစည်း များမှ ကိုယ်စားလှယ်များ၊ နိုင်ငံရေးပါတီများ၊ လွှတ်တော်အဖွဲ့ဝင်များနှင့် ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ် အစိုးရနှင့်လည်း တွေ့ဆုံခဲ့သည်။ သူမသည် အစိုးရမဟုတ်သောအဖွဲ့အစည်းများ၊ စစ်တွေမြို့အခြေစိုက်သော ကုသမဂ္ဂ အဖွဲ့အစည်းများ၏ ကိုယ်စားလှယ်များနှင့် တွေ့ဆုံဆွေးနွေးခဲ့သည်။
နေပြည်တော်တွင် နိုင်ငံတော်၏အတိုင်ပင်ခံ ပုဂ္ဂိုလ် ဒေါ်အောင်ဆန်းစုကြည်၊ လူမှုဝန်ထမ်း ကယ်ဆယ်ရေး နှင့် ပြန်လည်နေရာချထားရေး ဝန်ကြီးဌာန ပြည်ထောင်စုဝန်ကြီး ဒေါက်တာဝင်းမြတ်အေး၊ အလုပ်သမား၊ လူဝင်မှုကြီးကြပ်ရေးနှင့် ပြည်သူ့အင်အား ဝန်ကြီးဌာန ပြည်ထောင်စုဝန်ကြီး ဦးသိန်းဆွေ၊ ပညာရေး ဝန်ကြီး ဌာန ပြည်ထောင်စုဝန်ကြီး ဒေါက်တာ မျိုးသိမ်းကြီး၊ နိုင်ငံတော်၏အတိုင်ပင်ခံရုံး ဝန်ကြီးဌာန ပြည်ထောင်စု ဝန်ကြီး ဦးကျော်တင့်ဆွေ၊ အပြည်ပြည်ဆိုင်ရာ ပူးပေါင်းဆောင်ရွက်ရေးဝန်ကြီးဌာန ပြည်ထောင်စုဝန်ကြီး ဦးကျော်တင်နှင့် တပ်မတော်မှ ဒုတိယ ဗိုလ်ချုပ်မှူးကြီး စိုးဝင်းအပါအဝင် အစိုးရအရာရှိများနှင့် တွေ့ဆုံခဲ့ သည်။  သူမသည် လွှတ်တော်ကိုယ်စားလှယ်များ၊ ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ် တည်ငြိမ်အေးချမ်းရေးအထောက်အကူပြု ကော်မတီ ဥက္ကဋ္ဌ၊ အမျိုးသားလွှတ်တော် ဒုတိယဥက္ကဋ္ဌ ဦးအေးသာအောင်နှင့် ကော်မတီဝင်များ၊ အမျိုးသား လွှတ်တော်နှင့် ပြည်သူ့လွှတ်တော်၏ ပြည်သူတို့၏တိုင်ကြားစာဆိုင်ရာ ကော်မတီများနှင့် တွေ့ဆုံခဲ့သည်။
နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာသူစခန်းများ ပိတ်သိမ်းရေး မဟာဗျူဟာရေးဆွဲခြင်းကို အပြီးသတ်ပြီး၊  ဖြန့်ချီရန် အဆင်သင့် ရှိနေခြင်းကို သူမက ကြိုဆိုပါသည်။ သို့သော်၊ ဥပမာအားဖြင့် မြေပုံမြို့တွင် နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာသူ ၈၀ ရာခိုင်နှုန်း မှာ နိုင်ငံသားအဖြစ် ခံယူထားသော်လည်း ၎င်းတို့၏ သွားလာလှုပ်ရှားမှု လွတ်လပ်ခွင့်ကို အလွန် ကန့်သတ် ထားသဖြင့် သူမက စိတ်ပျက်မိပါသည်။ သူမ၏ ဆွေးနွေးမှုများတွင် လုံခြုံရေးဆိုင်ရာကိစ္စရပ်များနှင့် လူမှု အသိုင်းအဝိုင်းများအတွင်းနှင့် လူမှုအသိုင်းအဝိုင်းများအကြား ခွဲခြားမှုများ ပါဝင်ပါသည်။  ယင်းကိစ္စရပ်များ ကို ဖြေရှင်းကျော်လွှားကြရန် သူမက အကြိမ်ကြိမ် အလေးထား ပြောကြားခဲ့သည်။
ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်အတွင်း စီးပွားရေး၊ လူမှုအသိုင်းအဝိုင်းနှင့် နိုင်ငံရေးနယ်ပယ် အသီးသီးမှ အမျိုးသမီး ၄၀ ကျော်နှင့် တွေ့ဆုံခဲ့ရာတွင် နယ်ပယ်စုံမှ အမျိုးသမီးများနှင့် အတွေ့အကြုံဖလှယ်ပြီး၊ တူညီမှုများရှိသကဲ့သို့  ကွဲပြားသည့် အတွေ့အကြုံများရှိနေခြင်းကို သိရှိခွင့် ရခဲ့ခြင်းကို ကြိုဆိုပါသည်။  ထိုကဲ့သို့ တွေ့ဆုံမှုများကို ထပ်မံ စီစဉ်ခြင်း၊  လူမှုအသိုင်းအဝိုင်းများ တွေ့ဆုံထိတွေ့ခြင်းတို့ဖြင့် ခိုင်မာမှုမရှိသော ယုံကြည်မှုကို ပြုပြင် စေနိုင်သည်။  အချို့ အသိုင်းအဝိုင်းများအကြား ကူးလူးဆက်ဆံမှုမှာ တဖြည်းဖြည်း ပြုပြင်ပြောင်းလဲနေ သည်ကို ကြားသိရသဖြင့် ထိုကဲ့သို့ ဆက်လက်လုပ်ဆောင်သွားရန် သူမက အားပေးပါသည်။
မြန်မာနိုင်ငံအတွင်း ပိုမို သဟဇာတဖြစ်သော အတူတကွနေထိုင်မှုကို ဦးတည်ရန်လည်ကောင်း၊  နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာသူများနှင့် ဒုက္ခသည်များ လုံခြုံစွာ၊ သိက္ခာရှိစွာ မိမိတို့ရွေးချယ်ထားသော နေရပ်များသို့ မိမိဆန္ဒအလျောက် ပြန်လည် ရောက်ရှိလာနိုင်ရေးကို ဦးတည်သောအားဖြင့်လည်းကောင်း၊ အထူး ကိုယ်စားလှယ်၏ ခရီးစဉ်၌ အမျိုးသမီးရေးရာဆိုင်ရာ ကိစ္စရပ်များ၊ ပညာရေး လက်လှမ်းမီနိုင်ရေး ကိစ္စရပ်များနှင့် ယုံကြည်မှုတည်ဆောက်ရေးကိစ္စရပ်များကို အရေးပေးခဲ့သည်။
နေပြည်တော်တွင် သူမသည် အဆင့်တူပုဂ္ဂိုလ်ပေါင်းစုံနှင့် ရင်းနှီးပွင့်လင်းစွာ ဆွေးနွေးခဲ့သည်။ နယူးယောက်မြို့ရှိ ကုလသမဂ္ဂအထွေထွေညီလာခံနှင့် လုံခြုံရေးကောင်စီတွင် သူမ၏ လုပ်ဆောင်ချက်များ ကို နေပြည်တော်တွင် ရှင်းလင်းတင်ပြခဲ့သည်။
ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်တွင်းရှိ ဆင်းရဲနွမ်းပါးသော ကျောင်းသားများ တက္ကသိုလ်ပညာရရှိနိုင်ရေးကိုလည်းကောင်း၊ တပ်မတော်နှင့် ရက္ခိုင့်တပ်မတော် အကြား အပစ်အခတ်ရပ်ဆဲရေးကို စဉ်ဆက်မပြတ်ဆွေးနွေးရန် လိုအပ်ခြင်းကိုလည်းကောင်းဆွေးနွေးခဲ့သည်။  ပဋိပက္ခတွင်ပါဝင်သူများမှ အပြည်ပြည်ဆိုင်ရာ လူသားချင်းစာနာမှုဥပဒေများကို လိုက်နာရန် အရေးကြီးကြောင်းကို သူမက အလေးပေးပြောကြားခဲ့သည်။ သူမအနေနှင့် နှစ်ခြမ်းကွဲနေသော အယူအဆများ ပိုမိုများပြားလာနေသည်ကို ခံစားနေရသဖြင့်၊ သက်ဆိုင်နေသည့် ပြည်ထောင်စုအစိုးရ၊ ရခိုင်ပြည်နယ်အစိုးရ၊ ဒေသခံ နိုင်ငံရေးပါတီများ၊ အရပ်ဖက်အဖွဲ့အစည်းများအပြင် နေရပ်စွန့်ခွာသူများနှင့် ဘင်္ဂလားဒေ့ရှ်နိုင်ငံတွင် ရောက်ရှိနေသော ဒုက္ခသည်များအကြားလည်းကောင်း၊ အချင်းချင်း၌လည်းကောင်း တွေ့ဆုံဆွေးနွေးဖို့လိုအပ်ကြောင်း အလေးအနက်ပြောကြားခဲ့သည်။
ဘင်္ဂလားဒေ့ရှ်နိုင်ငံသို့ ဒုက္ခသည်များ အစုလိုက်အပြုံလိုက် ထွက်ခွာစေခဲ့သည့် ဖြစ်စဉ်များ၏ ဒုတိယ နှစ်ပတ်လည်အကြိုတွင် အပြုသဘောဆက်ဆံခြင်းနှင့် လူထုအားလုံးကိုလက်ကမ်းပေးကြရန် တောင်းဆို လိုက်ပါသည်။ ခွဲခြားဆက်ဆံမှုများ၊ အမုန်းစကားများနှင့် ဘာသာရေးကို နိုင်ငံရေး ရည်ရွယ်ချက်ဖြင့် အသုံးချခြင်းများကို အစိုးရအနေနှင့်လည်း ပြင်းထန်စွာ ဆန့်ကျင်ရန် တိုက်တွန်းလိုက်ပါသည်။

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14838-communication-press-after-official-visit-un-special-envoy-secretary-general-myanmar-christine




Date: 24 June 2019
Title: Myanmar: UN expert ‘fears for civilians’ after Internet shutdown
Content: 24 June 2019
GENEVA (24 June 2019) – The Myanmar Government’s shutdown of mobile data networks in nine townships could have serious implications for human rights and humanitarian monitoring in the conflict areas of Rakhine and Chin States, a UN expert warned on Monday.
“As there is no media access and serious restrictions on humanitarian organisations in the conflict-affected area, the entire region is in a blackout,” said Yanghee Lee, the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. “I fear for all civilians there, cut off and without the necessary means to communicate with people inside and outside the area.”
Recent reports allege violations of human rights and international humanitarian law to have been committed against the civilian population by both parties to the conflict in the last six months.
On 20 June, the Ministry of Transport and Communications issued an order to all mobile network providers under the Telecommunications Law 2013 to temporarily stop mobile internet services. The Ministry cited disturbances to the peace and internet services being used to coordinate illegal activities for the shutdown.
There are credible reports that on 19 June, the Tatmadaw conducted helicopter attacks in Minbya Township in central Rakhine. The following day, the Arakan Army fired on a navy ship in Sittwe, killing and injuring several soldiers.
“I am told that the Tatmadaw is now conducting a ‘clearance operation’, which we all know by now can be a cover for committing gross human rights violations against the civilian population,” the UN expert said. “We must not forget that these are the same security forces that have so far avoided accountability for the atrocities committed against the Rohingya in Rakhine State less than two years ago.”
The conflict between the Arakan Army and the Tatmadaw has been ongoing since late 2018, with civilians bearing the brunt of the violence. Over 35,000 civilians have been displaced and dozens of civilians, including children, have been killed and injured by both indiscriminate and targeted attacks. Others, mainly ethnic Rakhine men, have died while in the military’s custody.
“I call on the Government to reverse its decision to impose the mobile internet ban,” Lee said. “Both parties to the conflict must ensure that civilians and civilian objects are protected at all times and uphold international humanitarian law. The restrictions on the media and humanitarian organisations must be lifted immediately.”
ENDS
Ms. Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14848-myanmar-un-expert-%E2%80%98fears-civilians%E2%80%99-after-internet-shutdown




Date: 07 May 2019
Title: Note to Correspondents on release of Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo
Content: 07 May 2019
Yangon - The UN in Myanmar welcomes the release of Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo from prison.
The UN in Myanmar considers the release of Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo a step toward improving the freedom of the press and a sign of Government’s commitment to Myanmar’s transition to democracy.
The UN stands ready to continue to support Myanmar in its complex transition process.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14855-note-correspondents-release-wa-lone-and-kyaw-soe-oo




Date: 03 May 2019
Title: Note to Correspondents on reports of violence and civilian casualties in Rakhine State
Content: 03 May 2019
Acting UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar Knut Ostby is following with concern recent reports of escalation of violence and civilian casualties in Rakhine State. Mr. Ostby calls for calm and utmost restraint by all, protection of civilians in all circumstances, and respect for international humanitarian and human rights law. The UN stands ready to support authorities in strengthening their prevention and conflict resolution capacities, and to continue with provision of humanitarian aid.
Yangon, 3 May 2019
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14856-note-correspondents-reports-violence-and-civilian-casualties-rakhine-state




Date: 01 May 2019
Title: Note to Correspondents on Ceasefire Extension
Content: 01 May 2019
Yangon - Acting UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Knut Ostby welcomes the announcement by the Office of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defense Services of a ceasefire extension from 1 May to 30 June 2019.
Mr. Ostby expresses hope that the ceasefire extension will further strengthen the prospects for Myanmar’s peace process.
The UN in Myanmar is prepared to work with the relevant parties on providing urgent humanitarian assistance to all people in need in the affected areas.
Mr. Ostby also calls on all parties to protect civilians and uphold their responsibilities under International Humanitarian and Human Rights Law.
The UN reaffirms its deep commitment to continue supporting the Myanmar peace process and humanitarian operations.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14857-note-correspondents-ceasefire-extension




Date: 25 April 2019
Title: Myanmar: UN experts call rejection of Reuters appeal a “grave injustice”
Content: 25 April 2019
GENEVA – UN human rights experts said the rejection by Myanmar’s Supreme Court of a final appeal by two jailed Reuters journalists was a grave injustice, and represented a dark day for media freedoms and democracy in the country.
On Tuesday, Myanmar’s top court rejected the appeal by Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo who were jailed for seven years in connection with their investigation into the massacre of Rohingya men and boys at Inn Din village, Rakhine State, in 2017. Last week, they were awarded a Pulitzer Prize for their reporting.
“The upholding of the conviction of Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe is a grave injustice,” said the Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights in Myanmar, Yanghee Lee, and the Special Rapporteur on freedom of expression, David Kaye.
“This raises additional concerns about the independence of the judiciary, and the country’s commitment to international human rights standards,” they added, calling on the court to publish a full decision of its reasoning for rejecting the appeal.
Lee and Kaye said the case underlined an increasing curtailment of free expression and access to information across the country, and a worrying intolerance of legitimate criticism of the military.
“Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo did not commit a crime. They were doing their job as investigative journalists, reporting on issues of the upmost concern to the people of Myanmar, and serving in an essential democratic function,” the experts said.
The two journalists were arrested in December 2017 while working on the investigation, and found to be in possession of secret documents, which a policeman later testified were planted on them. They were charged with breaching the law on state secrets and sentenced to seven years imprisonment in September 2018. Their appeal was rejected by the Yangon Region High Court in January of this year.
On several occasions the experts have written to the authorities to express their concerns about the arrest and conviction of the journalists.
“With this deeply disappointing decision to uphold their conviction, it seems that Myanmar is once again going down a dark path, and not pursuing the genuine reforms that so many had hoped for,” the experts said.
The Special Rapporteurs called on the Government  to review 1923 Official Secrets Act in line with Myanmar’s obligations under international law. The Act carries a maximum penalty of 14 years in jail.
ENDS
The UN experts: Ms. Yanghee Lee, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar; Mr. David Kaye, Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression.
The Special Rapporteurs and Independent Experts are part of the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity.
Follow news related to the UN’s independent human rights experts on Twitter @UN_SPExperts.
Concerned about the world we live in? Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.#Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.or
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14858-myanmar-un-experts-call-rejection-reuters-appeal-%E2%80%9Cgrave-injustice%E2%80%9D




Date: 11 March 2019
Title: Myanmar: New land law could have disastrous impact on ethnic minorities
Content: 11 March 2019
GENEVA  – A UN expert has expressed grave concerns about the implementation of a new land law in Myanmar, affecting a third of the country, and the disastrous implications for traditional farming communities in ethnic minority regions.
“Today marks the day that thousands of people living in rural areas in Myanmar may be charged with criminal trespass if they continue to use their lands as they have done for generations,” Yanghee Lee, the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, told the Human Rights Council in Geneva.
She said the amended Vacant, Fallow and Virgin Lands Management Law fails to recognise shared land ownership practices, such as customary tenure, and land belonging to IDPs and refugees of conflict that has been left unattended. “The Law does not sufficiently recognise this reality,” Lee said. “The Law affects so many people, and with land insecurity central to the cycle of conflict, poverty and denial of rights, it has the potential to be disastrous.”
The law, which comes into effect on 11 March 2019, requires anyone occupying or using “vacant, fallow, or virgin” land to apply for a permit to use the land for 30 years or face eviction and up to two years in jail. She called on the Government to immediately suspend and review the law.
Lee also raised serious concerns about natural resource extraction, saying it was the one area of the economy she received more reports of human rights abuse in relation to than any other.
“Military-dominated state-owned economic enterprises in natural resource extraction are the regulators, revenue collectors and commercial entities, and they are permitted to retain vast profits that bypass the Government budget with no record kept on how they are spent,” she said.
“Revenues from natural resource extraction needed for vital services and development being diverted to the military and its allies, undermines the civilian Government, democratic reforms, the peace process, sustainable development and the realisation of rights.”
The Special Rapporteur said the Union of Myanmar Economic Holdings Ltd. and Myanmar Economic Corporation were active across many sectors, including natural resource extraction. “The full extent of their business operations and profits are unclear, but their main beneficiaries are most likely to be high-ranking military and ex-military officials,” she said.
Lee said armed conflict continued in northern Shan between ethnic armed organisations and in Rakhine State between the Arakan Army and the Tatmadaw, and civilians were facing rights abuses as a result. Lee called on all parties to end hostilities, and to ensure that they take precautions and protect civilians.
She urged the international community to continue to work for justice for victims in Myanmar. Given that the road to justice was long and uncertain, she said, it was paramount that victims’ needs were addressed. “There is much that Myanmar must do to deal with the past. Reversing the continued stance of denial, and shifting to recognition and acknowledgement would go a long way to bringing about an end to impunity that has long existed in Myanmar.”
Lee called for the situation in Myanmar to be referred to the International Criminal Court by the Security Council, or a state party or group of states parties. “Victims must not be forced to wait in the purgatory of international inaction,” she said, adding if it was not possible to refer the situation to the ICC, the international community should consider establishing an independent tribunal.
ENDS
Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14867-myanmar-new-land-law-could-have-disastrous-impact-ethnic-minorities




Date: 26 February 2019
Title: Ongoing UN and Japan Cooperation on Rakhine extended in 2019 to also support communities in Kachin and Shan
Content: 26 February 2019
Naypyidaw - The Government of Japan and eight United Nations Agencies today signed a US$ 37 million value agreement to implement humanitarian and development projects in Shan, Kachin and Rakhine States. The funding will enable the delivery of life-saving assistance, protection, trust-building initiatives and early recovery support to women, men, girls and boys across the three states.  This important partnership builds on a US$ 20 million agreement that was signed in 2018, that aimed to assist half a million people in Rakhine State.
“I thank the Government and people of Japan for their continued support to respond to immediate humanitarian needs and address the long-term development prospects in Rakhine as well as Kachin and Shan States,” said UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ad interim Knut Ostby. “The UN agencies signing today appreciate the continued confidence of our partners that enable us to add urgently needed support for humanitarian activities in Kachin and northern Shan States to the ongoing humanitarian and development initiatives in Rakhine State.”
The agreements were signed by His Excellency Mr. Ichiro Maruyama, Ambassador of Japan to Myanmar and representatives of the participating UN Agencies. UN bodies that receive contribution under the agreements include the International Organization on Migration (IOM), UN-Habitat, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), UN Women, and the World Food Programme (WFP).
The Agreement was signed in the presence of representatives of the Union Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement and Union Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
In order to address cross-cutting humanitarian and development needs, approximately half of the funding will support critical life-saving activities, including food assistance, shelter, water and sanitation. The remaining funds will be invested in longer-term development initiatives to improve living standards for all communities, including restoration of livelihoods and building government capacity. Further activities under these partnerships will include, among others:
The projects signed today will be implemented over the next twelve months, with work scheduled to begin in April 2019.
“We must be ambitious because the needs of the people in these three States are great,” added Knut Ostby. “UN agencies have integrated their activities in line with the humanitarian-development-peace-human rights nexus to achieve better results.”
Annex: Sample results achieved over the past 12 months in Rakhine State under the agreement signed between the UN and Japan in February 2018
For further information contact:
UNFPA: Yenny Gamming +95-9260400005 or gamming@unfpa.org
UNICEF: Alison Rhodes, ++95 1 2305960 Ext: 2420 or arhodes@unicef.org
UNHCR: Billie Phillips, +95 9785505364 or phillips@unhcr.org
UNDP: Sandra Barrows, +(95-1) 542910 to 19 Ext: 2237 or sandra.barrows@undp.org
Office of the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator: Stanislav Saling, +95 942 6519871 or stanislav.saling@one.un.org
Background on UN agencies
Established in 1951, IOM is the leading inter-governmental organization in the field of migration and works closely with governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental partners. With 169-member states, a further 8 states holding observer status and offices in over 100 countries, IOM is dedicated to promoting humane and orderly migration for the benefit of all. IOM works to help ensure the orderly and humane management of migration, to promote international cooperation on migration issues, to assist in the search for practical solutions to migration problems and to provide humanitarian assistance to migrants in need, including refugees and internally displaced people. IOM established its operations in Myanmar in 2005, and Myanmar became IOM’s member state in 2012.
On the ground in about 170 countries and territories, UNDP works to eradicate poverty while protecting the planet. We help countries develop strong policies, skills, partnerships and institutions so they can sustain their progress.
UNFPA works to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled. Active in Myanmar since  1973, UNFPA partners with the Government, NGOs and other development stakeholders to implement programmes on sexual and reproductive health and rights; gender equality and women’s empowerment; and population data for development.
UN-Habitat is the United Nations programme working towards a better urban future. Its mission is to promote socially and environmentally sustainable human settlements development and the achievement of adequate shelter for all.
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is mandated to provide humanitarian aid and protection to refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people worldwide, and assist in their safe and voluntary repatriation, local integration or resettlement.
UNICEF has been working with the Government and the people of Myanmar since 1950. In partnership with the Government and the civil society, UNICEF’s current focus of work aims at reducing child mortality, improving access and quality of education and protecting children from violence, abuse and exploitation.
UN Women is the UN organization dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, UN Women was established to accelerate progress on meeting their needs worldwide. UN Women supports UN Member States as they set global standards for achieving gender equality, and works with governments and civil society to design laws, policies, programmes and services needed to ensure that the standards are effectively implemented and truly benefit women and girls worldwide.
WFP is the world’s largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger worldwide, delivering food assistance in emergencies and working with communities to improve nutrition and build resilience. Each year, WFP assists some 80 million people in around 80 countries.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14868-ongoing-un-and-japan-cooperation-rakhine-extended-2019-also-support-communities-kachin-and




Date: 20 February 2019
Title: Third group of Myanmar refugees return home from Thailand with UNHCR support
Content: 20 February 2019
This week more than 500 refugees in Thailand are expected to return to south-eastern Myanmar as part of a voluntary repatriation process led by the Royal Thai Government and the Government of the Union of Myanmar, with the support of UNHCR, the UN refugee agency, and its partners. This is the third such movement, providing returning refugees a chance to rebuild their lives in their home country following decades of displacement in Thailand.
The refugees will be departing from five refugee camps on the border and crossing from Thailand into Myanmar’s Kayin and Kayah States. On reception by Myanmar authorities at the border, the returnees will continue on to reception centres, where they will be provided with assistance including immigration support with documentation, and medical screening. From there, they will go on to their final destinations.
Recognising the improved conditions in parts of south-eastern Myanmar, UNHCR has been supporting this government-led process since late 2016, by helping refugees who have expressed a clear desire to go home to do so in safety and dignity.
Refugees have been provided with counselling and information on conditions in return areas by UNHCR and its partners. They are also receiving transport and initial reintegration support. In previous such facilitated return movements in October 2016 and May 2018, 164 refugees returned home from Thailand and UNHCR continues to monitor their reintegration and transition to life in present day Myanmar.
In recognition of the generosity of host communities in welcoming returnees, UNHCR and its partners will continue reintegration efforts including through the implementation of community based projects. Such initiatives are tailored to the needs of each community, and designed to create and support livelihood opportunities, facilitate access to basic services, as well as ease additional pressure on community infrastructure.
“Thailand has been a generous host, sheltering the refugees for many years.  This latest facilitated return movement is an encouraging step, enabling refugees who want to return home to go back in safety and dignity,” said James Lynch, UNHCR’s Regional Representative and Regional Coordinator for South-East Asia.
“UNHCR will continue to advocate for a range of solutions towards ending the refugees’ protracted displacement and encampment in Thailand.”
There are currently more than 97,000 refugees from Myanmar living in nine camps along the Thai-Myanmar border, mainly of Karen and Karenni ethnicity.
—–
Link to the statement: https://www.unhcr.or.th/en/news/general/pr/third-group-of-myanmar-refugees-return-home-from-thailand-with-unhcr-support
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14869-third-group-myanmar-refugees-return-home-thailand-unhcr-support




Date: 19 February 2019
Title: Myanmar and UN’s FAO agree a wide-ranging framework to improve nutrition and food security
Content: 19 February 2019
The Country Programming Framework (CPF) was signed by U Than Aung Kyaw, Director General, Foreign Economic Relations Department (FERD), Ministry of Investment and Foreign Economic Relations (MIFER) and Xiaojie Fan, FAO Representative in Myanmar. The signing was witnessed by U Set Aung, Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MoPF) and Ms Kundhavi Kadiresan, FAO Assistant Director-General and Regional Representative for Asia and the Pacific.
The launch of the CPF follows intensive consultations and agreements with the Ministry of Planning and Finance and relevant line ministries, Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), the private sector and other development partners.
Specifically, the CPF intends to help the government achieve three primary goals. The first is enhanced food security, nutrition and food safety. The second is strengthened governance and sustainable management of land, forests, water resources and ecosystems. The third relates to enhanced resilience of local communities and farming households to natural and humanitarian disasters, climate change and transboundary and emerging infectious disease risks.
Advances made in food security and nutrition – but concerns remain
Despite having reached a state of self-sufficiency in staple foods, food insecurity, particularly seasonal food insecurity, remain a concern across Myanmar, which risks being worsened due to climate and weather-related shocks and instances of social instability.
Myanmar had experienced a rapid decline in malnutrition figures in just a few decades. The prevalence of stunting among children below the age of five was reduced from around 40 percent in the 1990’s to less than 30 percent in 2016 but the improvements have since slowed.
“With nearly one child in three stunted much work remains to be done for Myanmar to achieve SDG-2, the Sustainable Development Goal of Zero Hunger by 2030” said Kadiresan. “But the fact that the Government of Myanmar and FAO have produced and published this comprehensive framework sets us on a clear path forward.”  The agriculture sector has a major role to play in addressing these sustained rates of food insecurity and malnutrition through agricultural diversification and rural income generation. FAO is ready to do its part to help, Kadiresan added.
FAO and Myanmar – 40+ years of collaboration
The Republic of the Union of Myanmar became a full member of the Food and Agriculture Organization in October 1947. The FAO Representation office was established here in 1978 and FAO has had a permanent presence in Myanmar for more than 40 years.
FAO Myanmar has been working in the areas of improved food security and nutrition, agriculture and crop production, livestock, fisheries and forestry. The Organization has also been helping to build resilience and reduce risks from environmental disasters and intervening when asked to respond to outbreaks of diseases in livestock.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14870-myanmar-and-un%E2%80%99s-fao-agree-wide-ranging-framework-improve-nutrition-and-food-security




Date: 13 February 2019
Title: Myanmar: Expert says violence and arrests of Karenni protesters must stop
Content: 13 February 2019
GENEVA – A UN expert has deplored today’s violent police response to protests in Myanmar against a statue of independence hero General Aung San.
“This is yet another example of the Government sidelining the rights of ethnic minorities and failing to truly do what is necessary to unite the country and bring about peace and democracy,” said Yanghee Lee, the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar.
Police fired rubber bullets and used batons and water cannons injuring up to 15 protesters in Loikaw, the capital of Kayah State and home to the Karenni ethnic minority. Today is the 72nd Union Day holiday to mark the 12 February 1947 pact promising autonomy for ethnic minorities in a federal Myanmar. Thousands of people had gathered to protest the erection of the statue of General Aung San, the architect of the pact.
“The Government of Myanmar must respect the right of all people to peacefully assemble and express their views about issues that concern them,” said Lee. “Using disproportionate force against peaceful protesters is entirely unacceptable. The arrests must stop.”
Local activists have reported that at least 60 protesters have been arrested since the start of February and charged under the Peaceful Assembly and Peaceful Procession Law. Thousands of Karenni have taken to the streets to protest against the statue, erected overnight at the end of January, saying it is a show of dominance by the central government that goes against efforts at peace and reconciliation.
Fourteen protesters arrested during a march against the statue on 3 July 2018 have been charged under sections 19 and 20 of the Peaceful Assembly and Peaceful Procession Law. Nine of those have also been charged with criminal defamation under section 505(b) and (c) of the Penal Code in relation to a letter they distributed to protesters.
General Aung San is the father of Aung San Suu Kyi, the State Counsellor and de facto leader of Myanmar. He was instrumental in the country achieving independence and signed the Panglong Agreement with the Kachin, Chin and Shan ethnic minority groups in 1947, a historic moment that promised a federal union and ethnic autonomy in Myanmar. General Aung San was assassinated shortly after, and the country has been plagued by civil war since.
ENDS
Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar
Myanmar: Expert says violence and arrests of Karenni protesters must stop
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14871-myanmar-expert-says-violence-and-arrests-karenni-protesters-must-stop




Date: 11 February 2019
Title: UN Special Representative Ms. Pramila Patten concludes her visit in Myanmar and calls for concrete implementation of Government’s commitments to prevent and address conflict-related sexual violence
Content: 11 February 2019
(Yangon/New York - Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict)
At the invitation of the Government of Myanmar, I conducted a 4-day visit to Yangon and Nay Pyi Taw from 5 to 8 February 2019. This was my second visit in the country and it followed the signing of a Joint Communiqué between the United Nations and the Government of Myanmar to prevent and respond to conflict-related sexual violence (CRSV).
The Joint Communiqué is premised on UN Security Council resolution 2106 (2013) which calls for specific time-bound commitments to combat sexual violence and requires concrete actions to be undertaken by the Myanmar Armed Forces such as the issuance of clear orders through chain of command to prohibit sexual violence and accountability for breaching these orders as well as timely investigation of all alleged abuses. The Joint Communiqué also outlines  six  priority “preventive measures”  as areas for cooperation between the United Nations and the Government of Myanmar  covering legislative reforms and strengthening of the  rule of law; capacity-building  of the  security and justice sectors; enhanced access to affected population for timely delivery of life-saving services to survivors of sexual violence; inclusion of provisions on prevention and response to CRSV in peace and repatriation agreements including in transitional justice mechanisms; exclusion from amnesties of  perpetrators of  sexual violence crimes; and risk-mitigation of conflict-related trafficking for the purpose of sexual violence/ exploitation.
During my visit, I had the opportunity to substantively engage with Government officials and in particular with the Ministers of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement; Defence; International Cooperation; Office of the State Counsellor; the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and the Union Attorney General. I also met with representatives from women’s civil society organizations, international NGOs, United Nations and diplomatic community.
The meetings with the Ministers were constructive and I am encouraged by a range of policy and legal reform initiatives underway. I offered the support of my Office and of the United Nations to align those efforts with international standards and to ensure that they specifically address conflict-related sexual violence. Specifically, I call for the wide dissemination of the newly-adopted Guidelines for caring of survivors of sexual violence and for improved referrals mechanisms between social protection, health, legal and justice actors. I also call on the Government to ensure that the draft Prevention of Violence against Women law is fully in line with international standards and urge for its adoption without further delay.
The signing of the Joint Communiqué in December 2018 is a positive signal given by the Government of Myanmar and during my visit concrete steps to kick start the implementation of the commitments taken by the Government in the Joint Communiqué have been identified including the establishment of an Inter-Ministerial infrastructure.
However, as conflict is ongoing, it is critical that efforts are undertaken by all parties to prevent conflict-related sexual violence.  I further call upon all parties to the conflict to distinguish between civilians and combatants, to allow civilians to seek safety and access humanitarian assistance, and to prevent retaliation against victims, their families or service providers who support them.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14872-un-special-representative-ms-pramila-patten-concludes-her-visit-myanmar-and-calls-concrete




Date: 07 February 2019
Title: Myanmar:  UN expert welcomes moves to amend constitution
Content: 07 February 2019
GENEVA  – The UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, who has been critical of the Government’s failure to pursue democratic reforms, has welcomed the establishment of a parliamentary committee to amend the problematic constitution.
“The establishment of this committee is a positive development that I hope will aid Myanmar to truly transition to democracy,” said Yanghee Lee. “The people wish the constitution to be amended, and I encourage the new joint committee to carry out their will.”
The ruling National League for Democracy party, led by Aung San Suu Kyi, pledged to amend the constitution during its 2015 national election campaign, which it won by a landslide.
Myanmar’s 2008 constitution was drafted by the previous military government and has been a key stumbling point in the country’s ability to move from decades of military rule towards democracy. It reserves 25 percent of the seats in parliament to members of the military, as well as designating military control of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Defence Services and Border Affairs.
“The current constitution is not democratic, and Myanmar cannot be considered a democracy without it being amended,” the Special Rapporteur said.
ENDS
Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
UN Human Rights, country page: Myanmar
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14874-myanmar-un-expert-welcomes-moves-amend-constitution




Date: 29 January 2019
Title: “Dialogue will make Myanmar stronger”
Content: 29 January 2019
The Special Envoy visited Myanmar from 18 to 29 January. During that time, she oversaw the installation of her new office in Nay Pyi Taw, where she also met with Union-level ministers and with the Chairperson of the Independent Commission of Enquiry. She travelled to Sittwe, where she engaged with relevant government ministers at the state level, as well as with humanitarian agencies, political parties, civil society and displacement affected communities. The Special Envoy also met with the United Nations agencies, international non-governmental organisations and with the diplomatic community in Yangon.
Her visit to Sittwe focused on the obstacles and potential solutions for freedom of movement, which is restricted for many people in Rakhine state for different reasons. “Freedom of movement is key for all people and their access to livelihoods. Without freedom of movement, children cannot go to local schools, and people still cannot access hospitals,” she said. “It is important to rebuild trust.”
The Special Envoy welcomed efforts by the Union Government to draft  a national strategy on “Closure of IDP Camps – Rebuilding Lives of IDPs in Safety and Dignity without Dependency” aimed at addressing and ending forced displacement that so many people all over Myanmar face. She encouraged the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement to implement the strategy through concrete action plans as soon as possible, while adhering to international principles and standards and offering her assistance.
The Special Envoy lauded the drafting of an information sheet for the refugees in Cox’s Bazar that would help explain the process for their potential repatriation to Rakhine State, once the conditions there had become conducive  for voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable returns. She promised to request the Government of Bangladesh to help with its distribution during her next visit to Dhaka.
The Special Envoy understood that the current security situation in Northern Rakhine State made humanitarian access and the return of refugees to affected areas more difficult. She nevertheless underlined the importance of allowing humanitarian organisations, international and local, to assist  the civilian population in that area,  and encouraged all sides to cease hostilities as soon as possible.
While expressing her condolences for the loss of life and displacement caused by the Arakan Army (AA) recent attacks by AA and the response by the Tatmadaw,  the Special Envoy welcomed efforts by the parties to engage advocated for an inclusive negotiation process through dialogue. When meeting representatives of the Tatmadaw, she welcomed the unilateral ceasefire declaration announced by the Commander in Chief on 21 December 2018, and urged them to reach out to all the ethnic armed organisations to invite them to dialogue. She acknowledged that it was difficult to talk while fighting was on-going. Despite ongoing security challenges, the Special Envoy invited the army leaders to keep the door open for negotiations. “Now it is even more important to talk,” she urged. In that context, she also welcomed the recent transfer of the General Administration Department to the Union Ministry of Government as a potential first step towards decentralisation and federalism, two key points in the peace process.
“Dialogue will make Myanmar stronger,” the Special Envoy told leaders of the Arakan National Party during her  visit to Rakhine. The Special Envoy  encouraged them and ministers to publicly stand against discrimination and hate speech, and to embrace Myanmar’s diversity as an asset rather than a weakness. She welcomed the stated willingness of the Rakhine leaders to accept the refugees’ return. In light of recent assurances that the new NVC cards will no longer contain mentions of religion or ethnicity, she also encouraged the internally displaced people she met to consider applying for registration, so that they can move around within the country. The Special Envoy was satisfied to hear the Rakhine State Minister explain in her presence to the internally displaced persons that the “NVC cards are not for foreigners, but for people residing in Myanmar. It is a first step towards citizenship. It applies to the whole country, even in the eastern part close to the Myanmar-Thai border, not just to Rakhine,” the Minister said. She welcomed the recent creation of a Committee of the Pyithu Hluttaw to receive complaints related to on-going citizenship applications as an important step towards transparency in the process.
The Special Envoy hopes that the Republic of the Union of Myanmar and Bangladesh can further strengthen their cooperation on the issue of repatriation and intends to travel to Dhaka in February. She will also return to New York in February for internal consultations.
Contrary to certain media reports, the Special Envoy was not denied access to Northern Rakhine state by the Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar . Her travel plans were established in December, and had not included Northern Rakhine state, as she had chosen to focus on restrictions on freedom of movement and spend substantive time with the people affected by this in and around Sittwe in a first instance.
For clarification:
The title of  Special Envoy is reserved for persons mandated to carry out Good Offices on behalf of the Secretary General and is not linked to other United Nations agencies or bodies.
Nay Pyi Taw, 29 January 2019
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14876-%E2%80%9Cdialogue-will-make-myanmar-stronger%E2%80%9D




Date: 27 January 2019
Title: Myanmar: UN expert decries failure to implement democratic reforms
Content: 27 January 2019
GENEVA – The UN’s human rights expert on Myanmar, Yanghee Lee, said today the Government was consolidating what military governments worked towards over many years, defying a pledge to transition to a fully functioning democracy under civilian control.
“Democratic freedoms are ever fragile,” said Lee at the end of an 11-day mission to neighbouring Thailand and Bangladesh.  “Communities are divided based on religion and ethnicity, and members of minorities face marginalization and discrimination. Ethnic nationalities continue to be subject to domination by the central government and the military, despite the official stance that they are working for peace to be brought to the country.”
Lee expressed serious concern about the situation in the conflict affected states of Kachin, Shan and Rakhine, noting that despite a unilateral ceasefire in Kachin and Shan States, there continues to be fighting between ethnic armed organisations that is increasing instability and insecurity for civilians.
In Rakhine State, the escalating fighting between the military and the Arakan Army is very worrisome, especially because the government and military have disallowed humanitarian access, she said. The Special Rapporteur said that there was fighting in Kayin State, and new military bases have been built in Kayah State.
Lee spoke with several people about their fear regarding the implementation of the amendments to the 2012 Vacant, Fallow and Virgin Lands Management Law which could lead to many people becoming landless. Additionally, she heard concerns about mega projects, such as dams, being pursued by the Government. “The Government is not consulting with local people or being transparent about these projects, which is causing concern and uncertainty for millions of people,” Lee said.
From discussions she had with Rohingya who had only recently arrived in Bangladesh from Myanmar, Lee said, “It is evident that Myanmar is not working to create conditions for return for the Rohingya but is engaging in a sustained campaign of violence, intimidation and harassment.”
Lee also visited the island Bhashan Char, where the Bangladesh Government is planning to relocate refugees. “If any plans are made about refugee relocation in the future, refugees must be fully engaged and participate in the process,” she said. “Without a protection framework agreed with the humanitarian community, the plans cannot move forward.”
The Government must be transparent about its plans, release its feasibility studies and allow the UN to undertake a full humanitarian and security assessment.
ENDS
Yanghee Lee (Republic of Korea) was appointed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2014 as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar. She is independent from any government or organization and serves in her individual capacity. Ms. Lee served as member and chairperson of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2003-2011). She is currently a professor at Sungkyunwan University, Seoul, and serves on the Advisory Committee of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. Ms. Lee is the founding President of International Child Rights Center.
The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms. Special Procedures mandate-holders are independent human rights experts appointed by the Human Rights Council to address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. They are not UN staff and are independent from any government or organization. They serve in their individual capacity and do not receive a salary for their work.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14877-myanmar-un-expert-decries-failure-implement-democratic-reforms




Date: 09 January 2019
Title: Statement on Situation in Rakhine State
Content: 09 January 2019
The Acting Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for Myanmar, Knut Ostby, is deeply concerned about the situation in northern and central Rakhine State, where an estimated 4,500 people have been displaced so far due to fighting between the Arakan Army and Myanmar’s security forces.
Mr. Ostby was shocked by the reports of attacks on 4 January, regrets the loss of life and offers his deepest sympathies to the families of the police officers who were killed.  The Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator urges all sides to ensure the protection of all civilians and uphold their responsibilities under International Humanitarian and Human Rights Law.
Mr. Ostby further appeals to all sides to intensify efforts to find a peaceful solution to the situation and to ensure humanitarian access to all people affected by the violence.  The United Nations has been in close contact with the Myanmar authorities in recent weeks and has offered to support ongoing efforts to respond to the humanitarian needs of those affected by the violence.
New York, 8 January 2019 / Yangon, 9 January 2019
###
Link to the noon briefing transcript: https://www.un.org/press/en/2019/db190108.doc.htm
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/14878-statement-situation-rakhine-state




Date: 08 August 2018
Title: UNHCR and UNDP urge tangible progress to improve conditions in Myanmar’s Rakhine State
Content: 08 August 2018

Two months since the signing of the tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between UNHCR, UNDP, and the Government of Myanmar, UNHCR, the UN refugee agency, and UNDP, the UN’s development agency, are both urging Myanmar authorities to make tangible progress to improve conditions in Rakhine State. The Myanmar government’s willingness to take the lead in the implementation of this agreement is critical to creating conditions conducive for the voluntary, safe, dignified, and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees.
The government has taken some encouraging steps since the MoU was signed on 6 June, including the formation of a tripartite Technical Working Group to support the implementation of the MoU; enabling an important visit by senior UNHCR and UNDP officials to the northern part of Rakhine State in early July; and facilitating an initial joint field visit to Rakhine State by the Technical Working Group mid-July. However, substantial progress is urgently needed in three key areas covered by the MoU: granting effective access in Rakhine State; ensuring freedom of movement for all communities; and addressing the root causes of the crisis.
First, effective access requires being able to consult, freely and independently and on a day-to-day basis, with communities in Rakhine State about their needs. It also necessitates a predictable, flexible and simplified procedure to approve travel authorizations within a reasonable period of time for UNHCR and UNDP staff to go to the areas where these communities reside. These are basic criteria for enabling us to carry out our work in the areas of Rakhine State covered by the MoU. On 14 June, UNHCR and UNDP submitted travel authorization requests for international staff to be based in Maungdaw and to start their work in the northern part of Rakhine State, and are waiting for a response from the Government to these requests.
Second, freedom of movement, as well as increased public services delivery, are crucial for all communities in Rakhine State, irrespective of religion, ethnicity or citizenship status. During the visit by senior UNHCR and UNDP officials in early July, it was evident that the remaining communities in the northern part of Rakhine State continue to live in fear of one another. All communities have been affected by the violence, but the remaining Rohingya communities are affected most of all. In particular, local orders severely restrict their freedom of movement. These restrictions prevent Rohingya communities from being able to work, go to school, and access healthcare.  They also prevent them from being able to interact with friends, family, and other communities in Rakhine State. Freedom to move was one of the most frequent requests expressed by Rohingya communities during the UNHCR-UNDP visit.
Third, it is fundamental to address the root causes of the crisis. The most sobering feature of northern areas of Rakhine State today is the empty space where villages used to stand. Unused and empty paddy fields are a stark reminder of the missing population who used to cultivate them. The signing of the tripartite MoU with the Government of Myanmar will not, in itself, allow Rohingya refugees to return home to Myanmar. In line with the MoU, root causes need to be addressed by implementing the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State, including a clear, voluntary and equal pathway to citizenship for all eligible individuals.
Confidence building measures need to take root, starting with facilitating access for UNHCR and UNDP to commence needs assessment visits to identify quick-impact projects in priority village tracts that have been agreed with the Government.
UNHCR together with UNDP remains prepared to support Myanmar in improving conditions in Rakhine State and operationalizing the MoU.
For more information on this topic, please contact:
For UNHCR:
For UNDP:
###
Download PDF version
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21819-unhcr-and-undp-urge-tangible-progress-improve-conditions-myanmar%E2%80%99s-rakhine-state




Date: 29 July 2018
Title: Note to Correspondents
Content: 29 July 2018
Note to Correspondents
The UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar Knut Ostby is following with great concern the flooding and extensive devastation caused by heavy rains in Bago, Kayin, Mon, Rakhine, Sagaing and other States.
His thoughts are with all those families whose lives have been impacted and is alarmed by the destruction of property, infrastructure and agricultural land.
The UN in Myanmar is mobilizing its partners, resources and capacity and is offering to provide support to the ongoing assistance delivered to the victims of the floods by the Government of Myanmar, civil society organizations, volunteers and other partners.
###
သတင္းထုတ္ျပန္ခ်က္
ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံဆိုင္ရာ ကုလသမဂၢဌာေနကိုယ္စားလွယ္ႏွင့္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာေထာက္ထားမႈဆိုင္ရာ ညိႇႏိႈင္းေရးမွဴး မစၥတာကႏြတ္ေအာ့စ္ဘီသည္ မိုးသည္းထန္စြာ ရြာသြန္းမႈေၾကာင့္ ပဲခူး၊ ကရင္၊ မြန္၊ ရခိုင္၊ စစ္ကိုင္းႏွင့္ အျခားေသာ ျပည္နယ္မ်ားတြင္ ျဖစ္ပြားလ်က္ရွိသည့္ ေရႀကီးေရလွ်ံမႈမ်ားႏွင့္ ႀကီးမားလွေသာ ပ်က္စီးဆံုးရံႈးမႈမ်ားကို စိုးရိမ္ပူပန္ျခင္းႀကီးစြာျဖင့္ မျပတ္နားစြင့္လ်က္ရွိပါသည္။
အသက္အႏၱရာယ္ရင္ဆိုင္ခဲ့ရသူမ်ား၏ မိသားစုမ်ား၊ ပစၥည္းဥစၥာမ်ား၊ အေျခခံအေဆာက္အံုမ်ားႏွင့္ စိုက္ပ်ိဳးေျမမ်ား ပ်က္စီးဆံုးရံႈးရျခင္းေၾကာင့္ အထိတ္တလန္႕ျဖစ္ေနၾကရသည့္ မိသားစုမ်ားအားလံုး အတြက္ ဆုေတာင္းေမတၱာပို႔သလ်က္ရွိပါသည္။
ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံရွိ ကုလသမဂၢအဖြဲ႕သည္ ၎၏ မိတ္ဖက္မ်ား၊ အရင္းအျမစ္မ်ားႏွင့္ စြမ္းေဆာင္ရည္မ်ားကို ႏိႈးေဆာ္စည္းရံုးေနၿပီျဖစ္ၿပီး ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအစိုးရ၊ အရပ္ဘက္လူမႈအဖဲြ႕အစည္းမ်ား၊ ေစတနာရွင္ျပည္သူ မ်ားႏွင့္ အျခားမိတ္ဖက္မ်ားမွ ေရေဘးသင့္ျပည္သူမ်ားအတြက္ ေဆာင္ရြက္ေပးလ်က္ရွိေသာ အကူအညီမ်ား၊ အေထာက္အပံ့မ်ားတြင္ ပါဝင္ကူညီပံ့ပိုးေပးမည္ျဖစ္ေၾကာင္း ကမ္းလွမ္းေနပါသည္။
ရန္ကုန္၊ ၂၀၁၈ခုႏွစ္၊ ဇူလိုင္လ ၂၈ ရက္
Download PDF version : English & Burmese
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21818-note-correspondents




Date: 21 June 2018
Title: Note to Correspondents: First Official Visit of the United Nations Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar
Content: 21 June 2018
United Nations Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Christine Schraner Burgener conducted her first official visit to Myanmar from 12 to 21 June.  In Nay Pyi Taw, Yangon and Rakhine state, she met among others with State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, Commander-in-Chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, Speaker of Pyithu Hluttaw U T Khun Myat, Speaker of Amyotha Hluttaw U Mahn Win Khine Than, Minister in the State Counsellor’s Office U Kyaw Tint Swe, Chair of Pyidaungsu Hluttaw's Legal Affairs and Special Cases Assessment Commission  Thura Shwe Mann, Chairman of the Election Commission U Hla Thein, the Rakhine State Government including Chief Minister U Nyi Pu, conflict-affected communities and families in Rakhine state, the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), people currently displaced along the international border between Myanmar and Bangladesh, representatives of Myanmar’s civil society, members of women associations, as well as with the United Nations country team, the diplomatic community and international NGOs. In all meetings, she stressed the need for inclusive solutions that integrated the views and important voices of women. The Special Envoy expresses her sincere appreciation to the Government of Myanmar and other interlocutors for their warm welcome and excellent organization of her visit. She also thanks the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator and the United Nations country team for their support.
In this first visit, the Special Envoy focused on listening to all sides to better understand their diverse perspectives with a view to building trust and confidence among various stakeholders, and establishing positive relations while promoting the key principles of the United Nations. She stressed the importance of taking stock of the recent positive steps taken by the Government of Myanmar, and held constructive discussions with all interlocutors, focusing on the situation in Rakhine state, the need for credible fact-finding, democratization and elections, and the peace process, including the implementation of the Nationwide Ceasefire Accord. She underlined the readiness of the United Nations to strengthen its support to Myanmar in line with the values of the Organisation, including promotion and protection of human rights. All interlocutors expressed their wish for peace and development in Myanmar, and shared their frank assessment of the challenges that they were facing. They conveyed their willingness to work closely with the Special Envoy and the United Nations. The Special Envoy emphasized that she would aim to serve as a bridge between the United Nations and Myanmar, as well as between the different stakeholders, and help formulate solutions that could draw on the comparative experiences and expertise of the Organisation.
In all discussions, the Special Envoy underlined the importance of accountability, which she highlighted was essential for genuine reconciliation. She urged for credible fact-finding measures, and highlighted the readiness on the part of the United Nations and the international community to cooperate in this regard.
The Special Envoy recognized recent positive steps on Rakhine state, in particular the signing on 6 June 2018 of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Myanmar, UNDP and UNHCR. While noting the complexities of the situation on the ground, she expressed the hope that current efforts aimed at addressing the root causes, including through the implementation of the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State - in particular ending restrictions on freedom of movement and granting citizenship to those eligible - would soon lead to an environment that would be conducive to the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return of the IDPs and refugees to their place of origin or choice.  She also expressed her support to the implementation of the 23 November 2017 MoU between Bangladesh and Myanmar. The Special Envoy plans to travel soon to Bangladesh, where she intends to visit the refugee camps.
The Special Envoy visited IDP camps outside Sittwe and Maungdaw, as well as those currently displaced along the international border area between Myanmar and Bangladesh. These field visits underlined the urgent need for freedom of movement, socio-economic development, non-discriminatory rule of law and public safety not least in terms of addressing the fears and distrust among the communities in Rakhine State. In all places, she spoke to conflict-affected communities and victims, and was deeply touched by their personal stories, which underlined that the vicious cycle of violence needed to end. Towards this end, the Special Envoy reiterates the importance of condemning incitement to racial hatred and violence, and to take all measures to defuse tensions between the communities. Reiterating the Secretary-General’s previous call, she suggested that in addition to the ongoing efforts to rebuild the destroyed infrastructure and to prepare suitable conditions for the return of the displaced, public meetings between the affected communities and the authorities would go a long way to encourage reconciliation and healing.
The Special Envoy engaged in substantive discussions on the peace process and highlighted her readiness to help build confidence and trust among the stakeholders. She added that the United Nations could help build positive momentum in terms of promoting an inclusive approach. Expressing concern about the intensifying violence in Kachin and Shan states as well as its impact on civilians, she looks forward to visiting these areas on a next visit. She responded positively to the willingness of the Government of Myanmar to include her in future peace talks.
The Special Envoy expresses her appreciation for the agreement of the Government of Myanmar to establishing her main supporting office in Nay Pyi Taw. Her travel plans include visits to Thailand, China and Bangladesh before her next consultations at the United Nations Headquarters in New York.  She looks forward to continuing these discussions with the Government of Myanmar and other stakeholders.
--------------------
သတင္းျပန္ၾကားခ်က္
၂၀၁၈ခုႏွစ္၊ ဇြန္လ ၂၁ ရက္
ကုလသမဂၢအေထြေထြအတြင္းေရးမွဴးခ်ဳပ္၏ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံဆိုင္ရာအထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံသို႔ ပထမအႀကိမ္ တရားဝင္ခရီးစဥ္ လာေရာက္ျခင္း။
ကုလသမဂၢအေထြေထြအတြင္းေရးမွဴးခ်ဳပ္၏ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံဆိုင္ရာ အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္ Ms. Christine Schraner Burgener သည္ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံသို႔ ပထမအႀကိမ္ တရားဝင္ခရီးစဥ္အျဖစ္ ဇြန္လ ၁၂ ရက္ေန႕မွ ၂၁ ရက္ေန႕ အထိ လာေရာက္ခဲ့ပါသည္။ ေနျပည္ေတာ္၊ ရန္ကုန္ႏွင့္ ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္တို႔တြင္ သူမသည္ ႏိုင္ငံေတာ္၏အတိုင္ပင္ခံပုဂၢိဳလ္ ေဒၚေအာင္ဆန္းစုၾကည္၊ တပ္မေတာ္ကာကြယ္ေရးဦးစီးခ်ဳပ္ ဗိုလ္ခ်ဳပ္မွဴးႀကီး မင္းေအာင္လႈိင္၊ ျပည္သူ႕လႊတ္ေတာ္ဥကၠ႒ ဦးတီခြန္ျမတ္၊ အမ်ိဳးသားလႊတ္ေတာ္ဥကၠ႒ ဦးမန္းဝင္းခိုင္သန္း၊ ႏိုင္ငံေတာ္အတိုင္ပင္ခံရံုးဝန္ႀကီးဌာန၊ ျပည္ေထာင္စုဝန္ႀကီး ဦးေက်ာ္တင့္ေဆြ၊ ဥပေဒေရးရာႏွင့္အထူးကိစၥ ရပ္မ်ား ေလ့လာဆန္းစစ္သံုးသပ္ေရးေကာ္မရွင္ဥကၠ႒ သူရဦးေရႊမန္း၊ ျပည္ေထာင္စုေရြးေကာက္ပဲြ ေကာ္မရွင္ဥကၠ႒ဦးလွသိန္း၊ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္ဝန္ႀကီးခ်ဳပ္ဦးညီပုအပါအဝင္ ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္အစိုးရ၊ ရခိုင္ ျပည္နယ္ရွိ ပဋိပကၡဒဏ္ ခံရေသာ လူမႈအသိုင္းအဝိုင္းမ်ားႏွင့္ မိသားစုမ်ား၊ ေနရပ္စြန္႕ခြာ တိမ္းေရွာင္ ေနသူမ်ား (IDPs)၊ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံႏွင့္ ဘဂၤလားေဒ့ရွ္ ႏိုင္ငံၾကား ႏိုင္ငံတကာ နယ္ျခားမ်ဥ္းတစ္ေလွ်ာက္တြင္ လတ္တေလာေနထိုင္ေနသူမ်ား၊ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံရွိ အရပ္ဘက္လူမႈအဖဲြ႕အစည္း ကိုယ္စားလွယ္မ်ား၊ အမ်ိဳးသမီးအဖဲြ႕အစည္းဝင္မ်ားကို ေတြ႕ဆံုခဲ့သလို ကုလသမဂၢဌာေနအဖြဲ႕၊ သံတမန္ အသိုက္အဝန္း၊ ႏိုင္ငံတကာ NGO မ်ားႏွင့္လည္း ေတြ႕ဆံုခဲ့ပါသည္။ ေတြ႕ဆံုမႈမ်ားအားလံုးတြင္ သူမ အေလးေပး ေျပာၾကားခဲ့သည့္အခ်က္မွာ အားလံုးပါဝင္ႏိုင္ေသာေျဖရွင္းရန္နည္းလမ္းမ်ားကို အမ်ိဳးသမီးမ်ား၏ အျမင္မ်ားႏွင့္ အေရးႀကီးေသာတင္ျပခ်က္မ်ားကို ေပါင္းစပ္ထည့္သြင္းကာ ရွာေဖြသြားရန္ လိုအပ္သည္ ဟူေသာ အခ်က္ျဖစ္ပါသည္။ အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္က ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအစိုးရႏွင့္ အျခားေသာ ေတြ႕ဆံုေဆြးေႏြး ေပးခဲ့ၾကသူမ်ားကို ၎တို႔၏ ေႏြးေထြးစြာႀကိဳဆိုမႈႏွင့္ သူမ၏ခရီးစဥ္အတြက္ အေကာင္းဆံုး စီစဥ္ေပးခဲ့မႈမ်ား အတြက္ လိႈက္လွဲစြာ ေက်းဇူးတင္ရွိေၾကာင္း ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။ထို႔ျပင္ သူမသည္ ကုလသမဂၢ ဌာေနညိႇႏိႈင္းေရးမွဴးႏွင့္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆိုင္ရာညွိႏိႈင္းေရးမွဴးႏွင့္ကုလသမဂၢဌာေနအဖဲြ႕တို႔ကိုလည္း ၎တို႔၏ပံ့ပိုးကူညီမႈမ်ားအတြက္ေက်းဇူးတင္စကားေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။
ဤပထမအႀကိမ္ခရီးစဥ္တြင္ အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္သည္ အဓိကအားျဖင့္ အက်ိဳးသက္ဆိုင္သူအမ်ိဳးမ်ိဳးၾကား ယံုၾကည္မႈတည္ေဆာက္ရန္ဟူေသာ ရည္ရြယ္ခ်က္ျဖင့္ ၎တို႔၏ မတူကြဲျပားသည့္ အျမင္မ်ားကို ပိုမို သိရွိ နားလည္လာရန္ ဘက္ေပါင္းစံုမွ လူမ်ားအားလံုး၏ ေျပာစကားမ်ားကို နားေထာင္ခဲ့ပါသည္။ ထို႔ျပင္ အျပဳသေဘာေဆာင္ေသာ ဆက္ဆံေရးမ်ားကို တည္ေဆာက္ရင္း ကုလသမဂၢအဖဲြ႕ႀကီး၏ အေျခခံမူမ်ားကို အားေပးျမႇင့္တင္ႏိုင္ရန္လည္း ရည္ရြယ္ပါသည္။ သူမက ေရွ႕ဆက္လုပ္ေဆာင္ရမည့္ အရာမ်ားအတြက္ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအစိုးရ၏ မၾကာေသးမီက ေဆာင္ရြက္ခဲ့ေသာ အျပဳသေဘာေဆာင္သည့္ ႀကိဳးပမ္းအားထုတ္ မ်ားကို ျပန္လည္ဆင္ျခင္သံုးသပ္ၾကည့္ရန္ အေရးႀကီးေၾကာင္းကိုလည္း အေလးထား ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ၿပီး ေတြ႕ဆံုေဆြးေႏြးသူမ်ားအားလံုးႏွင့္ ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္အေျခအေနမ်ားကို အဓိကထားကာ အျပဳသေဘာ ေဆာင္ေသာ ေဆြးေႏြးမႈမ်ား ျပဳလုပ္ခဲ့ရာ ယံုၾကည္စိတ္ခ်ရေသာ အခ်က္အလက္ရွာေဖြမႈမ်ား ေဆာင္ရြက္ ရန္ လိုအပ္ပံု၊ ဒီမိုကေရစီေဖာ္ေဆာင္မႈႏွင့္ ေရြးေကာက္ပဲြမ်ား၊ တစ္ႏိုင္ငံလံုး ပစ္ခတ္တိုက္ခိုက္မႈ ရပ္စဲေရး သေဘာတူညီခ်က္အပါအဝင္ ၿငိမ္းခ်မ္းေရးလုပ္ငန္းစဥ္မ်ားကို ေဆြးေႏြးျဖစ္ခဲ့ပါသည္။ ကုလသမဂၢအဖဲြ႕ ႀကီးအေနျဖင့္လည္း လူအခြင့္အေရးကို ျမႇင့္တင္ျခင္းႏွင့္ ကာကြယ္ေစာင့္ေရွာက္ျခင္းတို႔အပါအင္ မိမိတို႔အဖဲြ႕ အစည္း၏ တန္ဖိုးမ်ားႏွင့္အညီ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအား ကူညီပံ့ပိုးေနမႈမ်ားကို တိုးျမႇင့္လုပ္ေဆာင္ေပးသြားရန္ အသင့္ရွိေနေၾကာင္း သူမက ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။ ေတြ႕ဆံုေဆြးေႏြးခဲ့သူမ်ားအားလံုးက ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံတြင္ ၿငိမ္းခ်မ္းေရးႏွင့္ ဖံြ႕ၿဖိဳးတိုးတက္မႈမ်ား ရရွိရန္ လိုလားေၾကာင္း ထုတ္ေဖာ္ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ၾကၿပီး ၎တို႔ ရင္ဆိုင္ ၾကံဳေတြ႕ေနရေသာ စိန္ေခၚမႈမ်ားကို ပြင့္ပြင့္လင္းလင္း ဆန္းစစ္တင္ျပခဲ့ၾကပါသည္။ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံဆိုင္ရာ အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္ႏွင့္တကြ ကုလသမဂၢအဖဲြ႕ႀကီးႏွင့္ အနီးကပ္လက္တြဲေဆာင္ရြက္သြားရန္ လိုလား ေၾကာင္းကိုလည္း ထုတ္ေဖာ္ေျပာခဲ့ၾကပါသည္။ အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္က သူမသည္ ကုလသမဂၢအဖဲြ႕ႏွင့္ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံၾကား၊ အက်ိဳးသက္ဆိုင္သူအမ်ိဳးမ်ိဳးၾကား ညိႇႏိႈင္းေဆာင္ရြက္ေပးရန္၊ ကုလသမဂၢအဖဲြ႕ႀကီး၏ ႏိုင္ငံတကာမွ အလားတူအေတြ႕အၾကံဳမ်ား၊ ကၽြမ္းက်င္မႈမ်ားကို အသံုးျပဳကာ ၾကံဳေတြ႕ေနရေသာ ျပႆနာ မ်ားအတြက္ ေျဖရွင္းရန္နည္းလမ္းမ်ား ရွာေဖြႏိုင္ေအာင္ ကူညီပံ့ပိုးေပးရန္ ရည္ရြယ္ေၾကာင္း အေလးအနက္ အသိေပးေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။
ေတြ႕ဆံုေဆြးေႏြးမႈမ်ားအားလံုးတြင္ အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္သည္ စစ္မွန္ေသာ ျပန္လည္သင့္ျမတ္ေရး အတြက္ မရွိမျဖစ္လိုအပ္သည္ဟု သူမေထာက္ျပခဲ့ေသာ တာဝန္ခံမႈ၏ အေရးပါပံုကိုလည္း အေလးထား ေဆြးေႏြးသြားပါသည္။ သူမက ယံုၾကည္စိတ္ခ်ရေသာ အခ်က္အလက္ရွာေဖြေရး လုပ္ငန္းမ်ားကို ေဆာင္ ရြက္ရန္ တိုက္တြန္းခဲ့ၿပီး ယင္းလုပ္ငန္းမ်ားအတြက္ ကုလသမဂၢအဖဲြ႕ႏွင့္ ႏိုင္ငံတကာအသိုင္းအဝိုင္းမွ ပူးေပါင္းေဆာင္ရြက္ရန္ အသင့္ရွိေနေၾကာင္း ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။
ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္တြင္ မၾကာေသးမီက လုပ္ေဆာင္ႏိုင္ခဲ့သည့္ အျပဳသေဘာေဆာင္ေသာ လုပ္ေဆာင္ခ်က္ မ်ား၊ အထူးသျဖင့္ ၂၀၁၈ခုႏွစ္ ဇြန္လ ၆ ရက္က ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအစိုးရႏွင့္ UNDP၊ UNHCR တို႔ၾကား နားလည္မႈ စာခၽြန္လႊာ ေရးထိုးခဲ့မႈကို သူမက အသိအမွတ္ျပဳႀကိဳဆိုခဲ့ပါသည္။ ေျမျပင္တြင္ ျဖစ္ေပၚေနေသာ အေျခ အေနမ်ား၏ ရႈပ္ေထြးနက္နဲမႈမ်ားကို သိရွိသတိျပဳမိသည့္ တစ္ခ်ိန္တည္းတြင္ ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္ဆိုင္ရာ အၾကံ ေပးေကာ္မရွင္၏ အၾကံျပဳခ်က္မ်ား အထူးသျဖင့္ လြတ္လပ္စြာသြားလာခြင့္ ကန္႕သတ္ခ်က္မ်ား ရုပ္သိမ္း ျခင္းႏွင့္ ႏိုင္ငံသားျဖစ္ခြင့္ရွိသူမ်ားအား ႏိုင္ငံသားျဖစ္ခြင့္ေပးျခင္းတို႔ကို အေကာင္အထည္ေဖာ္ေနျခင္း အပါအဝင္ ျပႆနာမ်ား၏ အေၾကာင္းရင္းခံမ်ားကို ကိုင္တြယ္ေျဖရွင္းရန္ ရည္ရြယ္သည့္ လက္ရွိ ႀကိဳးပမ္းအားထုတ္ေနမႈမ်ားေၾကာင့္ မ်ားမၾကာမီကာလတြင္ IDP မ်ား ႏွင့္ ဒုကၡသည္မ်ားသည္ မူရင္းေနရပ္မ်ား သုိ႔မဟုတ္ ၎တို႔ ေရြးခ်ယ္သည့္ ေနရာမ်ားသို႔ မိမိသေဘာဆႏၵအေလ်ာက္၊ ေဘးကင္း၍ ဂုဏ္သိကၡာရွိစြာ အစဥ္အၿမဲ ျပန္လာႏိုင္မည့္ ပတ္ဝန္းက်င္တစ္ခုကို ဖန္တီးေပးႏိုင္လိမ့္မည္ဟု ေမွ်ာ္လင့္ေၾကာင္းကိုလည္း ထုတ္ေဖာ္ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။ ထို႔ျပင္ သူမက ဘဂၤလားေဒ့ရွ္ႏိုင္ငံႏွင့္ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံၾကား ၂၀၁၇ခုႏွစ္၊ ႏိုဝင္ဘာလ ၂၃ ရက္က လက္မွတ္ေရးထိုးခဲ့ေသာ MoU အေကာင္အထည္ ေဖာ္မႈကို အားေပးေထာက္ခံေၾကာင္းလည္း ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။ အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္သည္ ဒုကၡသည္စခန္းမ်ားသို႔ သြားေရာက္ရန္အတြက္ မၾကာမီ ဘဂၤလားေဒ့ရွ္ ႏိုင္ငံသို႔ သြားေရာက္ရန္လည္း စီစဥ္ထားပါသည္။
အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္သည္ စစ္ေတြႏွင့္ ေမာင္ေတာ ျပင္ပရွိ IDP စခန္းမ်ား၊ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံႏွင့္ ဘဂၤလားေဒ့ရွ္ ႏိုင္ငံၾကား ႏိုင္ငံတကာနယ္စပ္ေဒသတြင္ လတ္တေလာေနထိုင္လ်က္ရွိသူမ်ားထံသို႔လည္း သြားေရာက္ခဲ့ ပါသည္။ ထိုသို႔ ကြင္းဆင္းသြားေရာက္ေလ့လာမႈမ်ားအရ လြတ္လပ္စြာ သြားလာခြင့္၊ လူမႈစီးပြားဖံြ႕ၿဖိဳး တိုးတက္ေရး၊ ခြဲျခားဆက္ဆံျခင္းကင္းသည့္ တရားဥပေဒစိုးမိုးေရးႏွင့္ အမ်ားျပည္သူေဘးကင္းလံုျခံဳေရး၊ အထူးသျဖင့္ ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္ရွိ လူမႈအသိုင္းအဝိုင္းမ်ားၾကား ေၾကာက္ရႊံ႕မႈမ်ားႏွင့္ အယံုအၾကည္ကင္းမဲ့မႈမ်ား ကို ကိုင္တြယ္ေျဖရွင္းရန္ အေရးတႀကီးလိုအပ္လ်က္ရွိေၾကာင္းကို ေတြ႕ရွိခဲ့ရပါသည္။ ေနရာတိုင္းတြင္ သူမ သည္ ပဋိပကၡဒဏ္ ခံခဲ့ရေသာ လူမႈအသိုင္းအဝိုင္းမ်ားႏွင့္ လူပုဂၢိဳလ္မ်ားကို ေတြ႕ဆံုစကားေျပာခဲ့ၿပီး ၎တို႔ ေတြ႕ၾကံဳခဲ့ရသည့္ အလြန္စိတ္ထိခိုက္ဖြယ္ အျဖစ္အပ်က္မ်ားကို ေျပာျပၾကရာ အၾကမ္းဖက္မႈသံသရာကို အဆံုးသတ္ရန္ လိုအပ္ေနၿပီျဖစ္ေၾကာင္း ျပသေနပါသည္။ ထိုသို႔အဆံုးသတ္ႏိုင္ရန္အတြက္ လူမ်ိဳးေရး အမုန္းတရားႏွင့္ အၾကမ္းဖက္မႈမ်ားကို လံႈ႕ေဆာ္ေနမႈမ်ားအား ရႈတ္ခ်ရန္ အေရးႀကီးပံုႏွင့္ လူမႈအသိုင္း အဝိုင္းမ်ားၾကား တင္းမာမႈမ်ား ေလ်ာ့သြားေစေရး ေဆာင္ရြက္ႏိုင္သည္မ်ားအားလံုးကို ေဆာင္ရြက္ရန္လို အပ္ေၾကာင္း အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္က ထပ္ေလာင္းေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။ ကုလသမဂၢအတြင္းေရးမွဴးခ်ဳပ္၏ ယခင္က တိုက္တြန္းခ်က္ကို ထပ္ေလာင္းေျပာၾကားရင္း အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္က လက္ရွိေဆာင္ရြက္လ်က္ ရွိသည့္ ပ်က္စီးေနေသာ အေျခခံအေဆာက္အအံုမ်ားကို ျပန္လည္တည္ေဆာက္ျခင္း၊ ေနရပ္စြန္႕ခြာသူမ်ား ျပန္လာႏိုင္ရန္အတြက္ သင့္ေတာ္သည့္ အေျခအေနမ်ား ရွိေအာင္ ျပင္ဆင္ေဆာင္ရြက္ေနမႈမ်ားအျပင္    ျပန္လည္သင့္ျမတ္ေရးႏွင့္ ျပန္လည္ကုစားမႈမ်ားကို ပိုမိုအားေပးႏိုင္ရန္အတြက္ ထိခိုက္ခံစားခဲ့ရေသာ လူမႈ အသိုင္းအဝိုင္းမ်ားႏွင့္ အာဏာပိုင္မ်ားၾကား လူထုေဆြးေႏြးပြဲမ်ားကို အခ်ိန္ယူကာ လံုေလာက္ေသာ အတိုင္းအတာအထိ က်င္းပျပဳလုပ္သြားရန္ အၾကံျပဳခဲ့ပါသည္။
အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္သည္ အေရးႀကီးေသာ ၿငိမ္းခ်မ္းေရးလုပ္ငန္းစဥ္ဆိုင္ရာ ေဆြးေႏြးပဲြမ်ားတြင္လည္း ပါဝင္ေဆြးေႏြးခဲ့ၿပီး အက်ိဳးသက္ဆိုင္သူမ်ားၾကား ယံုၾကည္မႈတည္ေဆာက္ႏိုင္ေအာင္ ကူညီရန္ သူမ အသင့္ ရွိေနေၾကာင္း အေလးအနက္ ေျပာၾကားပါသည္။ သူမက ကုလသမဂၢအဖဲြ႕ႀကီးအေနျဖင့္လည္း အားလံုး ပါဝင္ႏိုင္ေသာ နည္းလမ္းတစ္ခုျဖင့္ ခ်ဥ္းကပ္ေဆာင္ရြက္ရာတြင္ အရွိန္ရလာေအာင္ ကူညီပံ့ပိုးေပးႏိုင္ ေၾကာင္းကိုလည္း ျဖည့္စြက္ေျပာၾကားသြားခဲ့ပါသည္။ ကခ်င္ျပည္နယ္ႏွင့္ ရွမ္းျပည္နယ္မ်ားရွိ အၾကမ္းဖက္မႈ မ်ား ျပင္းထန္ေနမႈႏွင့္ အရပ္သားမ်ားအေပၚ သက္ေရာက္မႈမ်ားႏွင့္စပ္လ်ဥ္း၍ စိုးရိမ္ပူပန္ေၾကာင္းကိုလည္း ထုတ္ေဖာ္ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ၿပီး ေနာက္တစ္ႀကိမ္ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံသို႔ လာေရာက္ေသာအခါ ထိုေဒသမ်ားသို႔ သြား ေရာက္ႏိုင္ရန္ သူမ ေမွ်ာ္လင့္ပါသည္။ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအစိုးရက သူမအား အနာဂတ္ၿငိမ္းခ်မ္းေရးေဆြးေႏြးပြဲ မ်ားတြင္ ပါဝင္ခြင့္ေပးရန္ လိုလိုလားလားရွိမႈအတြက္လည္း သူမက ေက်းဇူးတင္ဝမ္းေျမာက္မိပါသည္။
ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအစိုးရက အထူးကိုယ္စားလွယ္၏ အေထာက္အကူျပဳရံုးကို ေနျပည္ေတာ္တြင္ ဖြင့္လွစ္ခြင့္ေပး ရန္သေဘာတူညီသည့္အတြက္လည္း သူမက ေက်းဇူးတင္ရွိေၾကာင္းေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။ နယူးေယာက္ၿမိဳ႕ ရွိ ကုလသမဂၢဌာနခ်ဳပ္တြင္ ေနာက္တစ္ႀကိမ္ ေဆြးေႏြးတိုင္ပင္မႈမ်ား မျပဳလုပ္မီ သူမသည္ ထိုင္းႏိုင္ငံ၊ တရုတ္ႏိုင္ငံႏွင့္ ဘဂၤလားေဒ့ရွ္ႏိုင္ငံမ်ားသို႔ သြားေရာက္ရန္ စီစဥ္ထားပါသည္။ သူမသည္ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံ အစိုးရ ႏွင့္၊ အျခားေသာ အက်ိဳးသက္ဆိုင္သူမ်ားႏွင့္ ယခုခရီးစဥ္တြင္ ေဆြးေႏြးခဲ့သည္မ်ားကို ဆက္လက္ေဆြးေႏြး သြားႏိုင္ရန္ ေမွ်ာ္လင့္ေနမည္ ျဖစ္ပါသည္။

Download PDF versions: ENG & MYA
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21817-note-correspondents-first-official-visit-united-nations-special-envoy-secretary-general




Date: 12 June 2018
Title: UN Secretary-General Message for 100-Day Countdown to International Day of Peace
Content: 12 June 2018
The International Day of Peace, observed every year on 21 September, embodies our shared aspiration to end conflict in all its forms and to safeguard the human rights of all people. It is a day on which the United Nations calls for a 24-hour global ceasefire, with the hope that one day in our lifetime we will witness an end to violence.
Yet there is more to achieving peace than laying down weapons. True peace requires standing up for the human rights of all the world’s people.  That is why this year’s theme for the International Day of Peace is: “The Right to Peace – The Universal Declaration of Human Rights at 70”.
As the observance approaches, let us re-double our efforts to address the root causes of conflict and advance our work for the Sustainable Development Goals, including by promoting inclusive societies, providing access to justice and building accountable institutions.
Let us stand up for human rights for all in the name of peace for all.
Download PDF version
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21815-un-secretary-general-message-100-day-countdown-international-day-peace




Date: 06 June 2018
Title: UNHCR and UNDP sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Government of the Union of Myanmar to support the creation of conditions for the return of refugees from Bangladesh
Content: 06 June 2018
UNHCR and UNDP have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Government of the Union of Myanmar to support the creation of conditions for the return of refugees from Bangladesh.
Today, UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and UNDP, the UN Development Programme, signed a tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar in Nay Pyi Taw.
This MoU is a first and necessary step to establish a framework for cooperation between the UN and the Government aimed at creating conducive conditions for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable repatriation of refugees from Bangladesh and for helping to create improved and resilient livelihoods for all communities living in Rakhine State.
ဘဂၤလားေဒရွ္႔မွ ဒုကၡသည္မ်ား ျပန္လည္လာေရာက္ႏိုင္မည္႔အေျခအေနမ်ား ျဖစ္ေပၚလာႏုိင္ေရးအတြက္ ပံ႔ပိုးကူညီမႈ မ်ားေဆာင္ရြက္ေပးႏိုင္ရန္ ျပည္ေထာင္စုျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံေတာ္အစိုးရ၊ ကုလသမဂၢဒုကၡသည္မ်ား ဆိုင္ရာ မဟာမင္းႀကီးရံုး (UNHCR) ႏွင့္ ကုလသမဂၢဖြ႕ံၿဖိဳးမႈအစီအစဥ္ (UNDP)တို႔ နားလည္မႈစာခၽြန္လႊာ ေရးထိုးခဲ႔ပါသည္။
ကုလသမဂၢဒုကၡသည္မ်ားဆိုင္ရာေအဂ်င္စီတခုျဖစ္ေသာ UNHCR ႏွင့္ ကုလသမဂၢဖြ႕ံၿဖိဳးမႈ အစီအစဥ္ UNDP တို႔သည္ ျပည္ေထာင္စုသမၼတျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံေတာ္အစိုးရႏွင့္ သံုးပြင့္ဆိုင္နားလည္မႈစာခၽြန္လႊာတစ္ခုကို ယေန႔ ေနျပည္ေတာ္တြင္ လက္မွတ္ေရးထိုးခဲ႔ၾကပါသည္။
ဤနားလည္မႈစာခၽြန္လႊာသည္ ဘဂၤလားေဒရွ္႔မွ ဒုကၡသည္မ်ား ၎တို႔၏ဆႏၵ သေဘာထားႏွင့္အညီ၊ အႏၲရာယ္ကင္းစြာ၊ သိကၡာရွိရွိ၊ စဥ္ဆက္မျပတ္ ျပန္လာႏိုင္မည့္အေျခအေနေကာင္းမ်ား ျဖစ္ေပၚလာေရးႏွင့္ ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္အတြင္းရွိ လူမႈအသိုက္အ၀န္းမ်ားအားလံုး အတြက္ ပိုမိုေကာင္မြန္ျပီးခံႏိုင္ရည္အားေကာင္းေသာ အသက္ေမြး၀မ္းေၾကာင္းမႈမ်ား ဖန္တီးေရးတို႔ကို ရည္ရြယ္သည္႔ ကုလသမဂၢႏွင့္ အစိုးရတို႔၏ ပူးေပါင္းေဆာင္ရြက္မႈအတြက္ မူေဘာင္တစ္ခု ခ်မွတ္ရန္ လိုအပ္ေသာ ကနဦးေျခလွမ္းတစ္ရပ္ ျဖစ္သည္။

Download PDF version
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21813-unhcr-and-undp-sign-memorandum-understanding-mou-government-union-myanmar-support-creation




Date: 31 May 2018
Title: UNHCR and UNDP agree on text of MoU with Myanmar to support the creation of conditions for the return of Rohingya refugees
Content: 31 May 2018
GENEVA/NEW YORK – UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and UNDP, the UN Development Programme, agreed today in Nay Pyi Taw with the Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar on the text for the tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). It is planned that the MoU will be signed in the course of the next week, the exact date of which is still to be confirmed.
This tripartite Memorandum will establish a framework for cooperation aimed at creating the conditions conducive to the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable repatriation of Rohingya refugees to their places of origin or of their choosing. Since the conditions are not conducive for voluntary return yet, the MoU is the first and necessary step to support the Government’s efforts to change that situation and is also intended to support recovery and resilience-based development for the benefit of all communities living in Rakhine State.
The agreement will provide a framework for UNHCR and UNDP to be given access to Rakhine State, including to refugees’ places of origin and areas of potential return that has not been permitted since violence broke out in August 2017. The access, once effective, will allow UNHCR to assess the conditions on the ground and carry out protection activities. This will also enable UNHCR to eventually provide independent information to refugees about the conditions in their places of origin, helping them to make informed decisions if the conditions are right for them to return in safety and dignity. The MoU will also allow the two UN agencies to carry out needs assessments in affected communities and strengthen the capacity of local authorities to support the voluntary repatriation process.
The MoU, once signed, will affirm the Myanmar Government’s commitment to work with UNHCR and UNDP to find a solution for the Rohingya population, in line with the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State. The recommendations include establishing a clear and voluntary pathway to citizenship and ensuring freedom of movement for all people in Rakhine State, irrespective of religion, ethnicity or citizenship status. The development programmes supporting livelihoods and social cohesion will benefit all communities.
The signing of the MoU is an integral part of a comprehensive approach by UNHCR and UNDP to find solutions for Rohingya refugees and supporting transition towards a peaceful, fair and prosperous future for all the people of Rakhine. On 13 April 2018, the Government of Bangladesh and UNHCR also signed a MoU relating to voluntary returns of Rohingya refugees once conditions in Myanmar are deemed conducive.
For more information on this topic, please contact:
For UNDP:
For UNHCR:
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21811-unhcr-and-undp-agree-text-mou-myanmar-support-creation-conditions-return-rohingya-refugees




Date: 15 May 2018
Title: Statement by the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ai in Myanmar Knut Ostby on the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia
Content: 15 May 2018
Eleven UN agencies and Embassies are flying the rainbow flag today in support of diversity and inclusion for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons (LGBTI) in Myanmar on the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia.
This day marks the decision of the World Health Organization to declassify homosexuality as a mental disorder on 17 May 1990.
Since then, we have seen encouraging progress worldwide. Almost 40 countries now legally recognize same-sex couples. Some are looking at making it easier for transgender people to have their gender legally recognized.
However, the progress is not even. Discrimination persists in many countries on grounds of sexual orientation and LGBTI people face stigma, violence and human rights abuse.
Myanmar, like many countries in the region, has old colonial laws criminalizing same-sex relations.  While these are rarely enforced, they nevertheless contribute to a hostile environment for LGBTI people.
As Myanmar transforms in so many ways, it is time to change this.
All countries have accepted the principle – enshrined in international law – that human rights are universal.
The leaders of all countries – including Myanmar – have unanimously reaffirmed their commitment ending poverty and human rights discrimination by adopting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The 17 sustainable development goals are based on a single, guiding principle: to leave no one behind.
That includes LGBTI people who can make great contribution to society when their rights are respected.
They have a right to enjoy life that feels free, and where love can be found without prejudice and discrimination.
The United Nations is committed to support the Government of Myanmar in designing policies and programmes that will ensure human rights for all people regardless of their sexual orientation and gender identity.
###
လိင္တူဆက္ဆံသူမ်ားအား ေၾကာက္ရြ႕ံမုန္းတီးမွဳ (Homophobia)၊ ဆန္႔က်င္ဘက္လိင္ကဲ့သို႔ ဝတ္ဆင္ေနထိုင္သူမ်ားအား ေၾကာက္ရြ႕ံမုန္းတီးမွဳ (Transphobia)ႏွင့္၊ လိင္တူ/လိင္ကြဲ ဆက္ဆံသူမ်ားအား ေၾကာက္ရြ႕ံမုန္းတီးမွဳ (Biphobia) မ်ားအား ဆန္႔က်င္ေရး အျပည္ျပည္ဆိုင္ရာ ေန႔ အတြက္ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံဆိုင္ရာ ကုလသမဂၢဌာေန ယာယီ ညႇိႏႈိင္းေရးမွဴးႏွင့္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈ ဆိုင္ရာ ယာယီ ၫွိႏွိဳင္းေရးမွဴး Knut Ostby မွ ေပးပို႔သည့္သဝဏ္လႊာ။
၂၀၁၈ခု၊ေမလ ၁၇ ရက္၊
ယေန႔တြင္က်ေရာက္ေသာ၊ လိင္တူဆက္ဆံသူမ်ားအား ေၾကာက္ရြ႕ံမုန္းတီးမွဳ၊ ဆန္႔က်င္ဘက္လိင္ကဲ့သို႔ ဝတ္ဆင္ ေနထိုင္သူမ်ားအားေၾကာက္ရြ႕ံမုန္းတီးမွဳႏွင့္၊ လိင္တူ/လိင္ကြဲဆက္ဆံသူမ်ားအားေၾကာက္ရြ႕ံ မုန္းတီးမွဳမ်ားအား ဆန္႔က်င္ေရးအျပည္ျပည္ဆိုင္ရာေန႔တြင္၊ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံတြင္းေနထိုင္ၾကေသာ၊ အမ်ိဳးသား အခ်င္းခ်င္းလိင္တူခ်စ္သူ၊ အမ်ိဳးသမီးအခ်င္းခ်င္းလိင္တူခ်စ္သူ၊ ဆန္႔က်င္ဘက္လိင္ကဲ့သို႔ ဝတ္ဆင္ေနထိုင္ သူႏွင့္က်ား/မလိင္အဂၤါ ႏွစ္မ်ိဳး စလံုး ပါရွိသူမ်ား (LGBTI) ၏ - မတူညီကြဲျပားမွဳႏွင့္ ေနရာတိုင္းတြင္ ပါဝင္ခြင့္ရွိမွဳ ကိုေထာက္ခံေသာအားျဖင့္၊ ကုလသမဂၢေအဂ်င္စီ ၁၁ခုႏွင့္၊ သံရံုးမ်ားတြင္ သက္တံ့ေရာင္စဥ္ အလံမ်ား လႊင့္ထူၾကမည္။
ယေန႔သည္ ၁၉၉၀ခု၊ ေမလ ၁၇ ရက္ေန႔တြင္ ကမၻာ့က်န္းမာေရးအဖြဲ႕ႀကီးမွ၊ လိင္တူဆက္ဆံမွဳကို စိတ္မက်န္းမာမွဳ ေရာဂါစာရင္းမွ ပါယ္ဖ်က္လိုက္ျခင္း အထိမ္းအမွတ္ေန႔ျဖစ္သည္။
ထိုစဥ္အခ်ိန္မွစ၍၊ ကမၻာ့တလႊမ္းတြင္အားရဖြယ္ရာ တိုးတက္မွဳမ်ားျမင္ေတြ႕ခဲ့ရသည္။ ယခုအခါ ႏိုင္ငံေပါင္း ၄၀ ခန္႔တြင္လိင္တူစံုတြဲမ်ားကို တရားဝင္လက္ခံအသိအမွတ္ျပဳလာႀကသည္။ တခ်ိဳ႕ႏိုင္ငံမ်ားတြင္၊ ဆန္႔က်င္ဘက္ လိင္ကဲ့သို႔ဝတ္ဆင္ေနထိုင္သူမ်ားအား၊ ၎တို႔ႏွစ္သက္ရာ လိင္အမ်ိဳးအစားအတိုင္း လြယ္တလင့္တကူတရားဝင္ အသိအမွတ္ ေပးႏိုင္မည့္နည္းလမ္းမ်ားရွာေနၾကသည္။
သို႔ေသာ္လည္း ညီညီမွ်မွ်တိုးတက္ျခင္းေတာ့မဟုတ္ေပ။ ႏိုင္ငံအေတာ္မ်ားမ်ားတြင္၊ လိင္ဦးစားေပးမွဳအေပၚ အေျခခံၿပီး ခြဲျခားဆက္ဆံမွဳမ်ားရွိေနသည့္အတြက္၊ LGBTI မ်ားအေနႏွင့္၊ နံမည္ဆိုး တပ္ခံရမွဳ၊ အၾကမ္းဖက္ခံရမွဳ ႏွင့္ လူ႔အခြင့္အေရးခ်ိဳးေဖါက္ခံရမွဳမ်ားႏွင့္ရင္ဆိုင္ေနၾကရသည္။
ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံတြင္လည္း၊ ေဒသတြင္းရွိ အျခားေသာႏိုင္ငံမ်ားမွာကဲ့သို႔ပင္၊ လိင္တူဆက္ဆံမွဳမ်ားကို ရာဇဝတ္
ေၾကာင္း အရအေရးယူႏိုင္သည့္ ေခတ္ေဆြးကိုလိုနီ ဥပေဒမ်ားတည္ရွိေနဆဲျဖစ္သည္။ ျပဳျပင္ ေျပာင္းလဲမွဳမ်ားစြာျပဳလုပ္ေနသည့္ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအေနႏွင့္၊ ယခုကိစၥမ်ားကိုလည္းျပဳျပင္ေျပာင္းလဲရန္ အခ်ိန္ က်ေရာက္ေနၿပီျဖစ္သည္။
အျပည္ျပည္ဆိုင္ရာဥပေဒတြင္ ႏွလံုးသြင္းထားေသာ၊  လူ႔အခြင့္အေရးကို လူသားအားလံုးခံစားခြင့္ ရွိရမည္ ဟူသည့္အေျခခံမူကို ၊ကမၻာ့ႏိုင္ငံအားလံုးကလက္ခံထားၿပီးျဖစ္သည္။
ေရရွည္တည္တံ့ခိုင္ၿမဲသည့္ဖြံ ့ၿဖိဳးတိုးတက္ေရးအတြက္ ၂၀၃၀ လုပ္ငန္းအစီအစဥ္ကို အတည္ျပဳ ခ်မွတ္ ျခင္းျဖင့္၊ ကမၻာေပၚတြင္ ဆင္းရဲႏြမ္းပါးမွဳႏွင့္ လူ႔အခြင့္အေရးခြဲျခားဆက္ဆံခံရမွဳမ်ား ပေပ်ာက္သြားေစရန္ ၊ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံ အပါအဝင္ ႏိုင္ငံတကာေခါင္းေဆာင္မ်ားအားလံုးက ထပ္ေလာင္းအတည္ျပဳခဲ့ၾကၿပီးျဖစ္သည္။
ေရရွည္တည္တံ့ခိုင္ၿမဲသည့္ဖြံ ့ၿဖိဳးတိုးတက္ေရးအစီအစဥ္၏ဦးတည္ခ်က္ ၁၇ ရပ္သည္ - မည္သူတဦး တေယာက္ ကိုမွ်ခ်န္မထားခဲ့ေရး - ဟူသည့္၊ တခုတည္းေသာ လမ္းၫႊန္ခ်က္မူေဘာင္ အေပၚ အေျခခံ ထားျခင္းျဖစ္သည္။
ထို႔ေၾကာင့္ LGBTI မ်ားသည္လည္း  ထို လမ္းၫႊန္ခ်က္မူေဘာင္မ်ားႏွင္ ့အကၽြမ္းဝင္သူမ်ား ျဖစ္ၾကသည္။ ၎တို႔၏အခြင့္အေရးမ်ားကို အေလးထားေလးစားမည္ဆိုပါက၊ လူ႔ေဘာင္အဖြဲ႕အစည္းကို မ်ားစြာအက်ိဳး ျပဳႏိုင္သူမ်ားျဖစ္သည္။ ၎တို႔သည္လည္း၊ မလိုမုန္းထားမွဳ၊ ခြဲျခားဆက္ဆံခံရမွဳမ်ား ကင္းရွင္းစြာျဖင့္ အခ်စ္ကိုရွာေဖြကာဘဝ၏ အရသာကိုလြပ္လပ္စြာ ခံစားခြင့္ရွိၾကသူမ်ားျဖစ္သည္။
ကုလသမဂၢအေနႏွင့္၊ လိင္ဦးစားေပးမွဳ၊ က်ား/မျဖစ္တည္မွဳမ်ားအေပၚခြဲျခားမွဳမရွိပဲ၊ လူတိုင္းလူတိုင္း၊ လူ႔အခြင့္အေရး ရရွိခံစားႏိုင္မည့္ လုပ္ငန္းအစီအစဥ္မ်ားေရးဆြဲရာတြင္လည္းေကာင္း၊ မူဝါဒမ်ား ခ်မွတ္ရာ တြင္လည္းေကာင္း ၊ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံအစိုးရအားပံ့ပို႔းကူညီရန္သံဓိဌါန္ခ်ထားၿပီးျဖစ္သည္။
Download PDF version - ENG & MYA
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21809-statement-un-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-ai-myanmar-knut-ostby-international-day




Date: 02 May 2018
Title: Statement by the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar, Knut Ostby, ten years after Cyclone Nargis
Content: 02 May 2018
(Yangon, 2 May 2018): “Ten years ago today, Myanmar was devastated by cyclone Nargis – by far the worst natural disaster in the country’s history. The cyclone made landfall near Hainggyikyun in Ayeyarwady Region on 2 May 2008, with wind speeds of up to 200 kilometres per hour, accompanied by heavy rain and storm surges of up to 12 metres in certain areas. The cyclone left approximately 140,000 people dead or unaccounted for, with close to 2.4 million people affected in 37 townships in Ayeyarwady and Yangon regions.
On behalf of the United Nations, on this day that marks ten years since Cyclone Nargis, I would like to commemorate all those who died and who lost their loved ones in the tragic disaster. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to commend the strength and resilience of the people of Myanmar. Not only did they show courage in rebuilding their lives and their ruined communities in the immediate aftermath of Cyclone Nargis, but – drawing from the lessons of this disaster – they have contributed since then to Government-led efforts to reduce risks and to enhance disaster preparedness and response.
Myanmar remains one of the most disaster prone countries in Asia. With this in mind, the United Nations continues to work closely with the Government on disaster risk reduction and on disaster preparedness. A recent earthquake response simulation exercise supported by the United Nations is an example of this.
While remembering the victims of the catastrophic event in 2008, I would like to reiterate the commitment of the United Nations to continue supporting the Government of Myanmar in strengthening national capacity to prepare for and respond to natural disasters.”
ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံဆိုင္ရာ ကုလသမဂၢ ဌာေနကိုယ္စားလွယ္ႏွင့္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆိုင္ရာ ညႇိႏႈိင္းေရးမႉး ခႏြတ္ေအာ့ဒ္စဘီ၏ ဆိုင္ကလုန္းမုန္တိုင္းတိုက္ခတ္မႈ ဆယ္ႏွစ္ျပည့္သည့္ေန႔အတြက္ ထုတ္ျပန္ခ်က္
(ရန္ကုန္၊ ၂ဝ၁၈ ခုႏွစ္ ေမလ ၂ ရက္) – “လြန္ခဲ့သည့္ ဆယ္ႏွစ္အခ်ိန္ယေန႔တြင္ ျမန္မာႏို္င္ငံသည္ ႏိုင္ငံ၏ သမိုင္း၌  အဆိုးရြား၊ အျပင္းထန္ဆံုးေသာ ဆိုင္ကလုန္းမုန္တိုင္း နာဂစ္ေၾကာင့္ ထိခိုက္ပ်က္စီးမႈမ်ား ႀကီးမားစြာ  ခံစားခဲ့ရ ပါသည္။ ၂ဝဝ၈ ခုႏွစ္ ေမလ ၂ ရက္ေန႔ တြင္ ေလတိုက္ႏႈန္း တစ္နာရီလွ်င္ ကီလိုမီတာ ၂ဝဝ ေက်ာ္အထိရွိခဲ့ၿပီး၊ မုိးမ်ား သည္း ထန္စြာ  ရြာသြန္းမႈႏွင့္အတူ အခ်ိဳ႕ေနရာမ်ားတြင္ မုန္တိုင္း ဒီေရမွာ ၁၂ မီတာ အထိ ျမင့္တက္ေစခဲ့ေသာ ဆိုင္ကလုန္းမုန္တိုင္းမွာ ဧရာဝတီတိုင္းေဒသႀကီးရွိ ဟုိင္းႀကီးကၽြန္းၿမိဳ႕နယ္အနီးမွ  ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံ ကုန္တြင္းပိုင္း သို႔ ဝင္ေရာက္ခဲ့ ပါသည္။ ဆိုင္ကလုန္းမုန္တိုင္း ေၾကာင့္ လူဦးေရ  ၁၄ဝ,ဝဝ ခန္႔ ေသဆံုးခဲ့ရျခင္း၊ သို႔မဟုတ္ ေပ်ာက္ဆံုးျခင္း တို႔ရွိခဲ့ၿပီး၊ ဧရာဝတီ တိုင္းေဒသႀကီးႏွင့္ ရန္ကုန္တိုင္းေဒသႀကီးတို႔ရွိ ၿမိဳ႕နယ္ ၃၇ ၿမိဳ႕နယ္မွ လူဦးေရ ၂.၄သန္း နီးပါးမွာ မုန္တိုင္းေၾကာင့္ ထိခိုက္ခံစားခဲ့ရပါသည္။
ျမန္မာႏို္င္ငံသို႔ ဆိုင္ကလုန္းမုန္တိုင္း ဝင္ေရာက္တိုက္ခတ္ခဲ့သည္မွာ ဆယ္ႏွစ္ျပည့္ေျမာက္ခဲ့သည့္ ယေန႔တြင္ကၽြန္ေတာ့္ အေနျဖင့္ ကုလသမဂၢအဖြဲ႔အစည္း၏ကိုယ္စား အဆိုပါ ေၾကကြဲဝမ္းနည္းဖြယ္ ေဘးအႏၲရာယ္ေၾကာင့္ေသဆံုးခဲ့ရသူ မ်ားႏွင့္ မိသားစုဝင္မ်ားဆံုးရံႈးခဲ့ရသူမ်ားအား ေအာက္ေမ့သတိရေၾကာင္းေျပာၾကားလိုပါသည္။ တစ္ခ်ိန္တည္းမွာပင္
ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံရွိ ျပည္သူမ်ား ခြန္အားရွိစြာ ႀကံံ႕ႀကံ႕ခိုင္ရပ္တည္ႏိုင္မႈကိုလည္း  ခ်ီးက်ဴး ဂုဏ္ျပဳ ေျပာၾကား လိုပါသည္။ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံရွိ ျပည္သူလူထုမွာ ဆိုင္ကလုန္းမုန္တိုင္းတိုက္ခတ္ခဲ့ၿပီးေနာက္ ၄င္းတို႔၏ ဘဝမ်ားႏွင့္ ပ်က္စီးသြား ခဲ့ရေသာ ရပ္ရြာမ်ားကို  ျပန္လည္တည္ေဆာက္ႏိုင္သည့္ ခြန္အား၊ သတၲိကို ျပသခဲ့ရုံမွ်မက ၊ အဆိုပါ သဘာဝေဘး ႀကံဳေတြ႔ခဲ့ ရသည့္အျဖစ္အပ်က္မွသင္ခန္းစာယူၿပီး၊ ထိုအခ်ိန္မွစ၍ ႏိုင္ငံေတာ္အစိုးရမွ ဦးစီးေဆာင္ရြက္သည့္ ေဘးအႏၲရာယ္ ေလွ်ာ့ ခ်ေရး၊ ေဘးအႏၲရာယ္ႀကိဳတင္ ျပင္ဆင္ေရးႏွင့္ တုံ႔ျပန္ေဆာင္ရြက္ေရးတို႔ကို  တိုးျမႇင့္လုပ္ေဆာင္ႏိုင္ရန္ အားထုတ္ ႀကိဳးပမ္း ေဆာင္ရြက္မႈမ်ားတြင္ ပါဝင္ခဲ့ၾကပါသည္။
ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံသည္ အာရွတိုက္တြင္သဘာဝေဘးအႏၲရာယ္ႀကံဳေတြ႔ႏိုင္ေျခ အမ်ားဆံုးရွိသည့္ႏို္င္ငံမ်ား အနက္မွ ႏိုင္ငံ တစ္ႏိုင္ငံအျဖစ္ ဆက္လက္ရွိေနဆဲျဖစ္ပါသည္။ ထိုအခ်က္ကိုသိမွတ္လ်က္၊ ကုလသမဂၢအဖြဲ႔အစည္းအေနျဖင့္  ေဘး အႏၲရာယ္ေလွ်ာ့ခ်ေရးႏွင့္ ေဘးအႏၲရာယ္ႀကိဳတင္ျပင္ဆင္ေရးတို႔တြင္ ႏိုင္ငံေတာ္အစိုးရႏွင့္ အနီးကပ္ဆက္လက္ လက္
တြဲေဆာင္ရြက္သြားမည္ျဖစ္ပါသည္။ ကုလသမဂၢ အဖြဲ႔အစည္းမွ ကူညီ ေဆာင္ရြက္ခဲ့သည့္  ေျမငလ်င္ေဘး တုံ႔ျပန္ေရးသဏၭာန္တူ ေလ့က်င့္ျခင္းအစီအစဥ္မွာ ထိုေဆာင္ရြက္ခ်က္မ်ား၏ သာဓက တစ္ခုပင္ျဖစ္ပါသည္။
၂ဝဝ၈ ခုႏွစ္တြင္ ႀကံဳေတြ႔ခဲ့ရသည့္ ကပ္ဆိုးႀကီးအတြင္း အသက္ဆံုးရံႈး၊ ထိခိုက္ခံစားခဲ့ရသူမ်ားအား သတိရရင္း၊ သဘာဝေဘးအႏၲရာယ္မ်ားအတြက္ ႀကိဳတင္ျပင္ဆင္ျခင္းႏွင့္ တု႔ံုုျပန္ေဆာင္ရြက္ေရးလုပ္ငန္းမ်ားကို လုပ္ေဆာင္ရန္ တိုင္းျပည္၏ စြမ္းရည္ကို အားေကာင္းေစေရးေဆာင္ရြက္ရာတြင္ ကုလသမဂၢအဖြဲ႔အစည္းမွ ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံေတာ္အစိုးရအား ဆက္လက္ပံ့ပိုး ကူညီေဆာင္ရြက္သြားပါမည္ဟူေသာ ကတိကဝတ္ကို ကၽြန္ေတာ့္အေနျဖင့္ ထပ္ေလာင္းေျပာၾကား လိုပါသည္။
Download PDF verions of ENG & MYA
OCHA press releases are available at www.reliefweb.int and www.themimu.info

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21807-statement-united-nations-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-myanmar-knut-ostby-ten-years




Date: 20 April 2018
Title: Statement by the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ai in Myanmar, Knut Ostby, on Kachin State
Content: 20 April 2018
Yangon: “I am deeply concerned about reports of an escalation in armed conflict in several areas of Kachin State since 7 April. I have been particularly alarmed of reports of civilian casualties and the plight of communities affected by the fighting in Tanai and Hpakant townships, while other areas have been gravely affected as well. This includes possibly up to 2,000 people who reportedly have been displaced from Awng Lawt, Sut Ring Yang and Sut Ra villages in Tanai Township. They are said to be sheltering in a remote forest area and unable to leave. These civilians include women, as well as pregnant and breastfeeding women, children, elderly people, sick and injured people, who are in a dire situation and in urgent need of humanitarian assistance and protection. In Hpakant, civilians in Hlaing Naung Hku village are similarly reported to be unable to leave the area affected by fighting to safer locations.
I appeal to all parties to the conflict to allow displaced people and other civilians who may remain in the areas of conflict to be permitted to move to a more secure location of their choice and to allow for humanitarian assistance to reach these populations as a matter of urgency. Moreover, I appeal to all parties to the conflict to ensure that civilians are protected at all times and remind them of their obligations under International Humanitarian Law.”
ျမန္မာႏိုင္ငံဆိုင္ရာ ကုလသမဂၢ ဌာေနကိုယ္စားလွယ္ႏွင့္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆိုင္ရာ ညိွႏႈိင္းေရးမွဴး ခႏြတ္ေအာဒ္စဘီ၏ကခ်င္ျပည္နယ္ႏွင့္ စပ္လ်ဥ္း၍ ထုတ္ျပန္ခ်က္
(ရန္ကုန္၊ ၂ဝ၁၈ ခုႏွစ္ ဧၿပီလ ၂ဝ ရက္) – “ဧၿပီလ ၇ ရက္ေနမွစတင္၍ ကခ်င္ျပည္နယ္ရွိ ေဒသအမ်ားအျပားတြင္လက္နက္ကိုင္ ပဋိပကၡမ်ား ျပင္းထန္စြာျဖစ္ပြားလ်က္ရွိသည္ဟူေသာ အစီရင္ခံမႈမ်ားႏွင့္ စပ္လ်ဥ္း ၍ ကြၽန္ေတာ့္အေနျဖင့္အထူးပင္ စိုးရိမ္ပူပန္မိပါသည္။ အထူးသျဖင့္ တႏိုင္းႏွင့္ ဖားကန္႔ ၿမိဳ႕နယ္မ်ားတြင္ တိုက္ပြဲမ်ားေၾကာင့္ အရပ္သားမ်ားထိခိုက္၊ ေသဆံုးမႈမ်ားရွိျခင္း၊ ျပည္သူလူထုမ်ား ထိခိုက္ခံစားေနရျခင္း စသည့္အစီရင္ခံမႈမ်ားေၾကာင့္ အထူးပင္ ပူပန္ၿပီး၊အျခားေနရာမ်ားတြင္လည္း ထိခိုက္မႈမ်ားႀကီးမားစြာရွိေနေၾကာင္းသိရွိရပါသည္။ ထိုသို႔ ထိခိုက္သူမ်ားတြင္ တႏိုင္းၿမိဳ႕နယ္အတြင္းရွိ ေအာငေ္လာ့ဒ္၊ ဆြတ္ရိနယန္ႏွင့္ ဆြတ္ရာေက်းရြာမ်ားမွ ေနရပ္စြန္ခြာတိမ္းေရွာင္ခဲ့ရသည္ဟု သိရွိရေသာ လူဦးေရ ၂, ဝဝဝ ခန္ ့လည္း ပါဝင္ပါသည္။ အဆိုပါ ေနရပ္စြန္ခြာတိမ္းေရွာင္သူမ်ားမွာ သြားလာရန္ခက္ခဲေသာေတာထဲတြင္ ေရွာင္တိမ္း ေနထိုင္ၾကရလ်က္ရွိၿပီး၊  ပဋိပကၡေၾကာင့္ ထိခိုက္မႈျဖစ္ေနေသာေဒသမွ ထြက္ခြာႏိုင္ျခင္း မရေသးပါ။ အဆိုပါ အရပ္သားမ်ားတြင္ ကုိယ္ဝန္ေဆာင္ႏွင့္ ႏုိ ့တိုက္မိခင္မ်ားအပါအဝင္ အမ်ိဳးသမီးမ်ား၊ ကေလးငယ္မ်ား၊သက္ႀကီးရြယ္အိုမ်ား၊ ဖ်ားနာေနသူမ်ားႏွင့္ ဒဏ္ရာရထားသူမ်ားပါဝင္ကာ၊၎တုိ႔မွာ ဒုကအခက္အခဲမ်ား ႀကံဳေတြေနရၿပီး၊ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆိုင္ရာအကူအညီမ်ားႏွင့္ ကာကြယ္ေစာင့္ေရွာက္မႈမ်ားကို အပူတျပင္းလိုအပ္လ်က္ရွိသည္ဟုသိရွိရပါသည္။ ဖားကန္ ့ၿမိဳ႕နယ္တြင္ လိုင္ေနာင္ခူးရြာရွိ အရပ္သားမ်ားမွာလည္း တိုက္ပြဲေၾကာင့္ ထိခုိက္မရွိေသာေဒသမွ လံုၿခံဳေဘးကင္းေသာေနရာမ်ားသို႔ အလားတူပင္ ထြက္ခြာႏိုင္ျခင္းမရွိေသးေၾကာင္း သိရွိရပါသည္။
ေနရပ္စြန္ ့ခြာတိမ္းေရွာင္ရသူမ်ားႏွင့္ ပဋိပကျဖစ္ပြားေနေသာေဒသမ်ားတြင္ က်န္ရွိေနေသးေသာ အျခားအရပ္သားမ်ားအား ၄င္းတို႔ ဆႏအ တိုင ္း ေ ရ ြ း ခ ် ယ္ထာ းသည့္ ပ ိုမုိလံုၿခံဳေဘးကင္းေသာ ေနရာမ်ားသို႔ သြားခြင့္ျပဳေပးပါရန္ႏွင့္ အဆိုပါလူမ်ားထံ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆိုင္ရာအကူအညီမ်ား ခ်က္ခ်င္းေပးအပ္ႏိုင္ရန္အတြက္ ခြင့္ျပဳေပးပါရန္  ပဋိပကၡတြင္ပါဝင္ေနသူ အားလံုးကို ကြၽန္ေတာ့္အေနျဖင့္ ေမတၱာရ ပ္ခံအပ္ပါသည္။ ထိုျပင္  ပဋိပကၡတြင္ ပါဝင္ေနသူအားလံုးမွအခ်ိန္တိုင္းတြင္ အရပ္သားမ်ားကို ကာကြယ္ေစာင့္ေရွာက္မႈအားေသခ်ာစြာေဆာင္ရြက္ေပးပါရန္ ကြၽန္ေတာ့္ အေနျဖင့္ေမတၱာရ ပ္ခံၿပီး၊  ပဋိပကၡတြင္ ပါဝင္ေနသူအားလံုးသည္ အျပည္ျပည္ဆိုင္ရာ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆိုင္ရာ ဥပေဒမ်ားကိုလိုက္နာရန္ တာဝန္ရွိသည္ကိုလည္း ေျပာၾကားလိုပါသည္။”
Download PDF version (ENG & MYA)
OCHA press releases are available at www.reliefweb.int and www.themimu.info
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21806-statement-united-nations-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-ai-myanmar-knut-ostby-kachin




Date: 14 March 2018
Title: Statement on inaccurate references to the use of international guidelines on urban and territorial planning in Rakhine State
Content: 14 March 2018
The United Nations in Myanmar wishes to clarify inaccurate references to international guidelines on urban and territorial planning for prospective returnees in an article published by 7 Days news on 13 March 2018 and an article published by RFA on 23 February 2018.
The international guidelines on Housing and Property Restitution and Urban and Territorial Planning provide guidance for urban development in the context of resettlement. They apply to refugees and displaced persons who were arbitrarily or unlawfully deprived of their former homes, lands, properties or places of habitual residence, regardless of the circumstances by which displacement occurred.
Human rights protection is at the core of the guidelines. The principles do not call for land clearance or leveling of villages, as is inaccurately suggested in the concerned articles. The principles promote inclusive planning process with the participation of returning communities.
The UN in Myanmar, including the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), firmly adheres to these principles. None of the UN agencies in Myanmar has been involved in the planning or in the ongoing reconstruction process in Rakhine.
The UN is prepared to assist the Government of Myanmar make human settlement planning and housing construction meet international standards.
The UN is ready to support a voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable return of refugees to their places of origin.
Download PDF version
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21804-statement-inaccurate-references-use-international-guidelines-urban-and-territorial-planning




Date: 06 March 2018
Title: Statement: UNHCR appeals for protection of Rohingya currently trapped on Myanmar-Bangladesh border
Content: 06 March 2018
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is concerned about the safety of a group of vulnerable Rohingya women, men, and children from Myanmar, who have been living in a so-called “no man’s land” near the border between Myanmar and Bangladesh since the end of August 2017. UNHCR is closely following the developments after they were reportedly ordered to vacate the area by the Myanmar authorities.
UNHCR underscores that everyone has the right to seek asylum, just as they also have the right to return home when they deem the time and circumstances right. People who have fled violence in their country must be granted safety and protection and any decision to return must be voluntary and based upon a free and informed choice.
UNHCR also reiterates that conditions are not yet conducive to the return of Rohingya refugees. The causes of their flight have not been addressed and we have yet to see substantive progress on addressing the denial of their rights. Pursuing the conditions that will address these causes and enable their voluntary and sustainable return is critical.
In this regard, UNHCR continues to request to the Government of Myanmar to allow humanitarian access to UNHCR and partners throughout Rakhine State. This will be essential to promote coexistence among all of communities; to support the government towards their commitment to implement the Rakhine Advisory Commission’s (RAC) recommendations; and for UNHCR to monitor protection conditions, provide independent information to refugees, and accompany returns as and when they take place.
In Bangladesh, the Government and people continue to generously receive refugees and to provide them with protection and support. Nearly 700,000 refugees have now sought refuge in the country since violence broke out in the northern part of Myanmar’s Rakhine State in late August of 2017.
###
Download PDF version
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21802-statement-unhcr-appeals-protection-rohingya-currently-trapped-myanmar-bangladesh-border




Date: 22 February 2018
Title: New partnership to reach half a million people in Rakhine with humanitarian and development aid
Content: 22 February 2018
Nay Pyi Taw - Representatives of the Governments of Japan and Myanmar and seven United Nations agencies signed today agreements totaling US$ 20 million to implement a number of humanitarian and development projects benefitting people of all communities in Rakhine State.
“This partnership demonstrates the commitment of the international community to help find and implement solutions to the situation in Rakhine State,” said Knut Ostby, the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator ad interim in Myanmar.
The seven agencies, IOM, UNDP, UNFPA, UNHCR, UNICEF, UN Women and WFP will provide a range of food and development assistance throughout Rakhine State. The participating agencies will integrate their activities – in line with the humanitarian-development-peace nexus – to achieve better results.
“Our immediate concern is provision of humanitarian aid to people in need – irrespective of their religion, ethnicity, gender or citizenship status,” added Knut Ostby. “At the same time, more than 40 percent of people in Rakhine live in poverty and we have to reach them with development assistance in order to set the State on the path to peace and inclusive growth.”
The Myanmar’s Minister of Social Welfare, Rehabilitation and Resettlement H.E. Mr. Win Myat Aye, Ambassador of Japan H.E. Mr. Tateshi Higuchi and representatives of the United Nations participated in the signing ceremony in Nay Pyi Taw.
“In synergy with UNICEF, WFP, UNHCR, UNDP, UN-Women and UNFPA jointly with IOM which all have different expertise, the projects aim to improve humanitarian and development situation in Rakhine State with the approach of the humanitarian-development nexus, which is strongly advocated by the Government of Japan,” said Ambassador Higuchi.
The UN projects aim to reach half a million beneficiaries over the next 12 months. The projects will cover:
·         distribution of food, support for screening and treatment of severe acute malnutrition and feeding practices            with emphasis on children;
·         health services to vulnerable groups, such as pregnant women;
·         assistance with rehabilitation of shelters;
·         expanding access to drinking water and sanitation services;
·         providing safe spaces for children;
·         improving access to mental health and psychosocial support, particularly for survivors of gender-based                  violence;
·         support for education activities;
·         promoting inclusive and responsive service delivery;
·         improving access to justice and rule of law;
·         identifying livelihoods and peacebuilding opportunities; and
·         creating employment opportunities, particularly for women.
“All our activities will support the implementation of national development goals and the Rakhine Advisory Commission’s recommendations,” said Knut Ostby.
“As we will be carrying out our activities, we will be making sure that we observe international standards and principles.”
While the Government of Myanmar has opened up some access for the UN and its partners to some of the crisis affected areas in Rakhine State, humanitarian access remains restricted. The UN will continue to advocate for a meaningful and predictable access allowing distribution of humanitarian and development assistance for the benefit of all communities.
Additionally, the UN in Myanmar will continue to call for voluntary, safe, sustainable and dignified return of refugees to places of origin -- and UNHCR’s involvement in the repatriation process.
“With the recent crisis in mind, we need to be able to face peace, development and human rights challenges simultaneously. These projects will be important contribution both to addressing the immediate needs and a path to sustainable development for all communities in Rakhine State,” concluded Knut Ostby.
###
Media contacts
UNHCR: Paul Vrieze at +95(0)9 44803 4427 or vrieze@unhcr.org
UNFPA: Yenny Gamming at +95-1-542910-19 Ext. 149 or gamming@unfpa.org
UNICEF: Alison Rhodes at +95 1 2305960-69 Ext. 1446 or arhodes@unicef.org
WFP: Arsen Sahakyan at +95 12305971 Ext. 2420 or arsen.sahakyan@wfp.org
Office of the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator: Stanislav Saling at +95-942 651 9871 or stanislav.saling@one.un.org
Background on UN agencies
Established in 1951, IOM is the leading inter-governmental organization in the field of migration and works closely with governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental partners. With 169-member states, a further 8 states holding observer status and offices in over 100 countries, IOM is dedicated to promoting humane and orderly migration for the benefit of all. IOM works to help ensure the orderly and humane management of migration, to promote international cooperation on migration issues, to assist in the search for practical solutions to migration problems and to provide humanitarian assistance to migrants in need, including refugees and internally displaced people. IOM established its operations in Myanmar in 2005, and Myanmar became IOM’s member state in 2012.
On the ground in about 170 countries and territories, UNDP works to eradicate poverty while protecting the planet. We help countries develop strong policies, skills, partnerships and institutions so they can sustain their progress.
UNFPA works to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person’s potential is fulfilled.
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is mandated to provide humanitarian aid and protection to refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people worldwide, and assist in their safe and voluntary repatriation, local integration or resettlement.
UNICEF has been working with the Government and the people of Myanmar since 1950. In partnership with the Government and the civil society, UNICEF’s current focus of work aims at reducing child mortality, improving access and quality of education and protecting children from violence, abuse and exploitation.
UN Women is the UN organization dedicated to gender equality and the empowerment of women. A global champion for women and girls, UN Women was established to accelerate progress on meeting their needs worldwide. UN Women supports UN Member States as they set global standards for achieving gender equality, and works with governments and civil society to design laws, policies, programmes and services needed to ensure that the standards are effectively implemented and truly benefit women and girls worldwide.
WFP is the world's largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger worldwide, delivering food assistance in emergencies and working with communities to improve nutrition and build resilience. Each year, WFP assists some 80 million people in around 80 countries.
သတင္းထုတ္ျပန္ခ်က္
ရခုိင္ျပည္နယ္ရွိ လူဦးေရ ၅ သိန္းထံသုိ႔ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာေထာက္ထားမႈႏွင့္ဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးေရးအကူအညီမ်ား ေပးအပ္ရန္ ပူးေပါင္းေဆာင္ရြက္မႈအသစ္ - ကုလသမဂၢ
ဂ်ပန္ႏုိင္ငံႏွင့္ျမန္မာႏုိင္ငံအစုိးရမ်ားႏွင့္ ကုလသမဂၢေအဂ်င္စီ ၇ ခုတုိ႔မွ ကုိယ္စားလွယ္မ်ားသည္ ရခုိင္ျပည္နယ္ရွိ လူ႔အဖြဲ႕အစည္းမ်ားအားလံုး ကုိ အက်ဳိးျပဳမည့္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈႏွင့္ဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးေရးစီမံကိန္းမ်ားကိုအေကာင္အထည္ေဖာ္ရန္ စုစုေပါင္း အေမရိကန္ေဒၚလာ သန္း ၂၀ တန္ဖုိးရွိ သေဘာတူညီခ်က္မ်ားကုိ ေနျပည္ေတာ္တြင္ ယေန႔ လက္မွတ္ေရးထုိးခဲ့ၾကပါသည္။
“ယခုလုိပူးေပါင္းေဆာင္ရြက္မႈဟာ ရခုိင္ျပည္နယ္မွာျဖစ္ေပၚေနတဲ့ အေျခအေနေတြကုိ ကူညီအေျဖရွာၿပီး အ ေကာင္အထည္ေဖာ္ေဆာင္ရြက္ေပးလိုတဲ႔ ႏုိင္ငံတကာအသိုင္းအ၀ုိင္းရဲ႕စိတ္အားထက္သန္မႈကုိ ျပသလုိက္တာ ျဖစ္ပါတယ္” ဟု ျမန္မာႏုိင္ငံရွိ ကုလသမဂၢ ဌာေနညွိႏႈိင္းေရးမွဴးႏွင့္ လူသားခ်င္း စာနာေထာက္ထားမႈဆုိင္ရာညိႇႏႈိင္းေရးမွဴး (ယာယီ) Knut Ostby က ေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။
ေဖာ္ျပပါသေဘာတူညီခ်က္အရ IOM, UNDP, UNFPA, UNHCR, UNICEF, UN Women ႏွင့္ WFP တုိ႔က ရခုိင္ျပည္နယ္ တစ္၀ွမ္းတြင္ စားနပ္ရိကၡာႏွင့္ ဖြံ႔ျဖိဳးမႈအကူအညီမ်ားကို ပံ့ပုိးေပးသြားမည္ျဖစ္သည္။ ပါ၀င္ေသာ ေအဂ်င္စီမ်ားအေနျဖင့္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈ - ဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးေရး - ၿငိမ္းခ်မ္းေရး အားလံုးကို ခ်ိတ္ဆက္ေဆာင္ရြက္သည္႔ပံုစံျဖင့္ ပုိမုိေကာင္းမြန္ ေသာ ရလဒ္မ်ား ရရွိေရးအတြက္ မိမိတုိ႔၏လုပ္ငန္းေဆာင္ရြက္မႈမ်ားကုိ ေပါင္းစပ္လုပ္ေဆာင္သြားမည္ ျဖစ္သည္။
“ကၽြန္ေတာ္တုိ႔ရဲဲ႕ လက္ငင္းလုပ္ငန္းစဥ္ဟာ လုိအပ္ခ်က္ရွိေနတဲ့ လူမ်ားကုိ လူမ်ဳိး၊ ဘာသာ၊ က်ား-မ သုိ႔မဟုတ္ ႏုိင္ငံသားျဖစ္တည္မႈ မခြဲျခားဘဲလူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈအကူအညီမ်ား ေပးႏိုင္ဖို႔းျဖစ္ပါတယ္” ဟု Knut Ostby ေျပာၾကားခဲ့သည္။ “တစ္ခ်ိန္တည္းမွာဘဲ ရခုိင္ျပည္နယ္မွာရွိတဲ့ လူေပါင္း ၄၀ ရာခုိင္ႏႈန္းေက်ာ္ ဟာ ဆင္းရဲႏြမ္းပါးမႈကို ရင္ဆိုင္ေနရတဲ႔အတြက္ ကၽြန္ေတာ္တုိ႔အေနနဲ႔ ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္ကုိ ၿငိမ္းခ်မ္းမႈ နဲ႔ အားလံုးပါ၀င္မႈရွိတဲ့ ဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးေရးလမ္းေၾကာင္းအေပၚကုိ ေရာက္ရွိေစဖုိ႔ ဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးေရးအကူအညီေတြ ေရာက္ရွိေအာင္ လုပ္ေဆာင္ေပးရမွာ ျဖစ္ပါတယ္” လုိ႔ ထပ္ေလာင္းေျပာၾကားခဲ့ပါသည္။
လူမႈ၀န္ထမ္း၊ ကယ္ဆယ္ေရးႏွင့္ျပန္လည္ေနရာခ်ထားေရး၀န္ႀကီးဌာန ၀န္ၾကီး H.E ေဒါက္တာ၀င္းျမတ္ေအးသည္ ဂ်ပန္ႏုိင္ငံသံအမတ္ႀကီး H.E Mr. Tateshi Higuchi ႏွင့္ ကုလသမဂၢ ဌာေန ညွိႏိႈင္းေရးမွဴးႏွင့္လူသားခ်င္းစာနာ ေထာက္ထားမႈဆုိင္ရာညိႇႏႈိင္းေရးမွဴး (ယာယီ) Knut Ostby တုိ႔ႏွင့္အတူ စီမံကိန္းသေဘာတူညီခ်က္မ်ားကုိ ေနျပည္ေတာ္တြင္ လက္မွတ္ေရးထုိးခဲ့ၾကပါသည္။
သံအမတ္ၾကီး Mr. Higuchi ကေျပာၾကားရာတြင္ “မတူညီတဲ႔ ကၽြမ္းက်င္မႈေတြကို ပိုင္ဆိုင္ထားတဲ႔ UNICEF၊ WFP ၊ UNHCR ၊ UNDP ၊ UN-Women ၊ UNFPA နဲ႔ IOM တို႔ ပူးေပါင္းလုပ္ေဆာင္မဲ႔ ယခုစီမံကိန္းဟာ ရခိုင္ျပည္နယ္မွာရွိတဲ႔ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာေထာက္ထားမႈနဲ႔ဖြံ႔ျဖိဳးမႈဆိုင္ရာ အေျခအေနေတြကို ပိုမိုတိုးတက္ေစဖို႔ ရည္ရြယ္ပါတယ္။ အဲ႔ဒီလိုလုပ္ေဆာင္ရာမွာ ဂ်ပန္အစိုးရက အားတတ္သေရာေထာက္ခံေျပာၾကားေလ႔ရွိတဲ႔ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာေထာက္ထားမႈနဲ႔ဖြံ႔ျဖိဳးမႈႏွစ္ခုကို ခ်ိတ္ဆက္လုပ္ေဆာင္တဲ႔ပံုစံနဲ႔ လုပ္ေဆာင္သြားမွာ ျဖစ္ပါတယ္။
ယခုကုလသမဂၢစီမံကိန္းမ်ားသည္ လာမည့္ ၁၂ လေက်ာ္အတြင္းမွာ အက်ဳိးခံစားခြင့္ရမည့္လူေပါင္း ၅ သိန္းဆီ သုိ႔ ေရာက္ရွိေအာင္ ရည္မွန္းထားပါသည္။ အဆုိပါစီမံကိန္းမ်ားတြင္ ေအာက္ပါတုိ႔ပါ၀င္မည္ျဖစ္သည္ -
·         စားနပ္ရိကၡာျဖန္႔ျဖဴးေပးျခင္း၊ အလြန္အမင္း အဟာရခ်ဳိ႕တဲ့မႈမ်ားကုိ စစ္ေဆးၿပီး ကုသမႈေပးရန္အတြက္ ပံ့ပုိးေပးျခင္း ႏွင့္                        ကေလးသူ ငယ္မ်ားကုိ အဓိကထား၍ အစာအဟာရေကၽြးေမြးျခင္းလုပ္ငန္းမ်ား၊
·         ကုိယ္၀န္ေဆာင္မိခင္မ်ားကဲ့သုိ႔ေသာ ထိခုိက္ခံစားလြယ္သည့္အုပ္စုမ်ားကုိ က်န္းမာေရးေစာင့္ေရွာက္မႈ ေပးျခင္းလုပ္ငန္းမ်ား၊
·         ေနအိမ္မ်ားျပန္လည္ထူေထာင္ေရးတြင္ အကူအညီမ်ားေပးျခင္း၊
·          ေသာက္သံုးေရႏွင့္ ပတ္၀န္းက်င္သန္႔ရွင္းေရးဆိုင္ရာ၀န္ေဆာင္မႈမ်ားကို တုိးခ်ဲ႕ျဖည့္ဆည္းေပးျခင္း၊
·         ကေလးမ်ားအတြက္ ေဘးကင္းလံုျခံဳေသာေနရာမ်ား ျဖည့္ဆည္းေပးျခင္း၊
·         အထူးသျဖင့္ က်ား-မအေျချပဳအၾကမ္းဖက္မႈကို ခံစားလြတ္ေျမာက္လာသူမ်ားအတြက္ စိတ္က်န္းမာေရးႏွင့္ စိတ္ပုိင္းဆုိင္ရာ
ပံ့ပုိးကူညီမႈမ်ား လက္လွမ္းမီမႈျမႇင့္တင္ေပးျခင္း၊
·         ပညာေရးလုပ္ငန္းမ်ားအတြက္ ပံ့ပုိးမႈေပးျခင္း၊
·         အားလံုးပါ၀င္ျပီး လ်င္ျမန္ေသာတံု႔ျပန္မႈကိုေပးႏိုင္သည္႔ ၀န္ေဆာင္မႈကိုျမွင့္တင္ေပးရန္။
·         မွ်တေသာတရားစီရင္မႈရရွိေရးႏွင့္တရားဥပေဒစုိးမုိးမႈ ကို ျမႇင့္တင္ေပးျခင္း အသက္ေမြး၀မ္းေၾကာင္းႏွင့္ ျငိမ္းခ်မ္းေရး
တည္ေဆာက္မႈအတြက္ အခြင့္အလမး္မ်ားကိုေဖာ္ထုတ္ျခင္း
·         အထူးသျဖင့္ အမ်ဳိးသမီးမ်ားအတြက္ အလုပ္အကုိင္အခြင့္အလမ္းမ်ား ဖန္တီးေပးျခင္း၊
“ကၽြန္ေတာ္တုိ႔ရဲ႕ လုပ္ငန္းစဥ္မ်ားအားလံုးဟာ ႏုိင္ငံေတာ္ရဲ႕ဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးေရးရည္မွန္းခ်က္ပန္းတုိင္မ်ားနဲ႔ ရခုိင္ျပည္နယ္ အၾကံေပးေကာ္မရွင္ရဲ႕ အၾကံျပဳခ်က္မ်ား အေကာင္အထည္ေဖာ္မႈကုိ အေထာက္အကူျပဳမွာျဖစ္ပါတယ္” ဟု Knut Ostby က ေျပာၾကားသည္။ “ကၽြန္ေတာ္တုိ႔ရဲ႕လုပ္ငန္းစဥ္မ်ားကုိ အေကာင္အထည္ေဖာ္ေနစဥ္မွာ ကၽြန္ ေတာ္တုိ႔အေနနဲ႔ ႏုိင္ငံတကာစံႏႈန္းမ်ားနဲ႔ အေျခခံမူမ်ားကုိ လုိက္နာမႈရွိေရးအတြက္လည္း အာမခံခ်က္ေပးသြားမွာ ျဖစ္ပါတယ္။” ဟု ဆက္လက္ေျပာၾကားပါသည္။
ျမန္မာႏုိင္ငံအစုိးရအေနျဖင့္ ကုလသမဂၢႏွင့္၄င္းး၏မိတ္ဖက္အဖြဲ႕အစည္းမ်ားကုိ ရခုိင္ျပည္နယ္ရွိ ပဋိပကၡဒဏ္ခံရ ေသာေဒသအခ်ဳိ႕သုိ႔ ကူညီေဆာင္ရြက္ခြင့္အခ်ဳိ႕ေပးခဲ႔ေသာ္လည္း လူသားခ်င္းစာနာေထာက္ထားမႈဆုိင္ရာ အကူ အညီမ်ားေပးအပ္ေရးမွာေတာ့ အကန္႔အသတ္မ်ား ဆက္လက္ရွိေနဆဲျဖစ္သည္။ ကုလသမ
ဂၢအေနျဖင့္ လူ႔အဖြဲ႕ အစည္းအားလံုး အက်ဳိးရွိေစေရးအတြက္ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈ ႏွင့္ ဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးမႈဆုိင္ရာ အကူအညီမ်ားျဖန္႔ေ၀ေပးႏိုင္ရန္ထိေရာက္မႈရွိၿပီး၊ ႀကိဳတင္ခန္႔မွန္းႏုိင္သည့္ အကူအညီေပးခြင့္ရရွိေရးအတြက္ ဆက္လက္ေထာက္ခံအၾကံျပဳ မႈကုိ သြားမည္ျဖစ္သည္။
ထုိ႔အျပင္ ျမန္မာႏုိင္ငံရွိ ကုလသမဂၢအေနျဖင့္ ဒုကၡသည္မ်ား ၄င္းးတုိ႔၏ မူလေနရာမ်ားသုိ႔ ဆႏၵအေလ်ာက္၊ ေဘးကင္းလံုျခံဳမႈရွိစြာ၊ ေရရွည္တည္တံ႔ျပီ ဂုဏ္သိကၡာရွိရွိ ျပန္လာႏုိင္ေရးအတြက္ လည္းေကာင္း၊ ျပန္လည္ လက္ခံေရးလုပ္ငန္းစဥ္တြင္ UNHCR မွ ပါ၀င္ ကူညီသြားႏိုင္ရန္အတြက္လည္းေကာင္း ဆက္လက္ အၾကံျပဳသြားမည္ ျဖစ္သည္။
“မၾကာေသးမီက ျဖစ္ပြားခဲ့ေသာ ပဋိပကၡအေျခအေနအရ ကၽြန္ေတာ္တုိ႔အေနနဲ႔့ ျငိမ္းခ်မ္းေရး၊ ဖြံ႔ျဖိဳးေရးႏွင့္ လူ႔အခြင့္အေရးဆိုင္ရာ စိန္ေခၚမႈမ်ားကို တျပိဳင္နက္တည္း ရင္ဆုိင္ႏုိင္ရန္လည္း လုိအပ္ပါတယ္။ ယခုစီမံကိန္းေတြဟာ ရခုိင္ျပည္နယ္မွာရွိတဲ့ လူ႔အဖြဲ႕အစည္းအားလံုးအတြက္ လတ္တေလာလုိအပ္ခ်က္ေတြကုိ ျဖည့္ဆည္းေပးဖို႔ အတြက္သာမက၊ ေရရွည္တည္တံ့တဲ႔ဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးတုိးတက္ေရးလမ္းေၾကာင္းေပၚေရာက္ရွိေရးအတြက္လည္း  အေရးပါတဲ့ ပံ႔ပိုးမႈေတြြေပးသြားမွာ ျဖစ္ပါတယ္။” ဟု Knut Ostby က ဆက္လက္ေျပာၾကားပါသည္။
###
IOM ကို ၁၉၅၁ ခုႏွစ္တြင္ ဖြဲ႔စည္းတည္ေထာင္ခဲ႔ျပီး အစိုးရအခ်င္းခ်င္း ခ်ိတ္ဆက္ျပီး ေရႊ႔ေျပာင္းသြားလာေရးကိစၥမ်ားကို လုပ္ကိုင္ေနေသာ ဦးေဆာင္အဖြဲ႔အစည္း တစ္ခုျဖစ္ပါသည္။ ဤသုိ႔လုပ္ေဆာင္ရာတြင္ အစိုးရမိတ္ဖက္မ်ား၊ အစိုးရအခ်င္းခ်င္းအၾကားႏွင့္ ႏုိင္ငံတကာ မိတ္ဖက္မ်ားျဖင့္ နီးကပ္စြာလုပ္ကိုင္လ်က္ရွိပါသည္။ IOM တြင္ အဖြဲ႔၀င္ႏိုင္ငံေပါင္း ၁၆၉ ႏိုင္ငံရွိျပီး ေနာက္ထပ္ ၈ ႏိုင္ငံမွာ ေလ႔လာသူအျဖစ္ပါ၀င္လ်က္ရွိျပီး ႏိုင္ငံေပါင္း ၁၀၀ ေက်ာ္တြင္ ရံုးခန္းမ်ားဖြင့္လွစ္ထားပါသည္။ IOM သည္ အားလံုးအတြက္ အက်ိဳးျဖစ္ထြန္းေစမည္႔ လူသားဆန္ျပီး စနစ္တက်ရွိေသာ ေရႊ႔ေျပာင္းမႈမ်ားျဖစ္ေစရန္ အစဥ္တစိုက္လုပ္ေဆာင္လ်က္ရွိပါသည္။ ေရႊ႔ေျပာင္းသြားလာရာတြင္ လူသားဆန္ျပီးစနစ္က်ေသာ ေရႊ႔ေျပာင္းမႈမ်ား ျဖစ္ေစရန္အတြက္လည္းေကာင္း၊ ေရႊ႔႔ေျပာင္းသြားလာမႈဆိုင္ရာကိစၥရပ္မ်ားတြင္  ႏိုင္ငံတကာ ပူးေပါင္းပါ၀င္မႈကို ျမွင့္တင္ရန္လည္းေကာင္း၊ ေရႊ႔ေျပာင္းသြားလာမႈဆိုင္ရာ ျပသနာမ်ားအတြက္ လက္ေတြ႔က်ေသာ အေျဖမ်ားကို ရွာေဖြရာတြင္ ပံ႔ပိုးကူညီရန္အတြက္လည္းေကာင္း ဒုကၡသည္မ်ားႏွင့္ ေနရပ္စြန္႔ခြာတိမ္းေရွာင္ေနသူမ်ားအပါအ၀င္ အကူအညီလိုအပ္ေနသည္႔ ေရႊ႔ေျပာင္းသြားလာသူမ်ားအား လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆိုင္ရာ ပံ႔ပိုးမႈမ်ားေပးရန္အတြက္လည္းေကာင္း IOM မွ လုပ္ကိုင္ေဆာင္ရြက္လ်က္ ရွိပါသည္။
ႏုိင္ငံႏွင့္နယ္ေျမေဒသေပါင္း ၁၇၀ ခန္႔တုိ႔တြင္ UNDP သည္ ကမၻာေျမကုိ ကာကြယ္ေစာင့္ေရွာက္မႈေပးရင္း ဆင္း ရဲႏြမ္းပါးမႈတုိက္ဖ်က္ေရးအတြက္ လုပ္ေဆာင္ေနပါသည္။ UNDP အေနျဖင့္ ႏုိင္ငံမ်ားအား ၄င္းတုိ႔၏ တုိးတက္မႈ မ်ား ေရရွည္တည္တံ့မႈရွိေအာင္ ေဆာင္ရြက္ႏုိင္ေစေရးအတြက္ အားေကာင္းေသာ မူ၀ါဒမ်ား၊ ကၽြမ္းက်င္မႈမ်ား၊ မိတ္ဖက္ပူးေပါင္းေဆာင္ရြက္မႈမ်ားႏွင့္ အင္စတီက်ဴးရွင္းမ်ား ျဖစ္ေပၚေစေရးအတြက္ ကူညီေပးေနပါသည္။
UNFPA သည္ ကိုယ္၀န္ေဆာင္မႈတိုင္းအား လက္ခံႏိုင္ေသာ၊ ကေလးေမြးဖြားမႈတုိင္းအား ေဘးကင္းမႈရွိေသာ၊ လူငယ္တုိင္း၏ အလားအလာမ်ားကို ျဖည့္ဆည္းေပးေသာ ကမၻာႀကီးတစ္ခု ျဖစ္ေပၚေရးအတြက္ လုပ္ကုိင္ ေဆာင္ရြက္ေပးေနပါသည္။
ကုလသမဂၢဒုကၡသည္မ်ားဆုိင္ရာေအဂ်င္စီျဖစ္သည့္ UNHCR သည္ ကမၻာတစ္၀ွမ္းရွိ ဒုကၡသည္မ်ား၊ အတင္းအၾကပ္ဖိအားမ်ားေၾကာင့္ ေနရပ္စြန္႔ခြာ ေနထုိင္ၾကရသည့္ လူ႔အဖြဲ႕အစည္းမ်ား ႏွင့္ ႏုိင္ငံမဲ့ျဖစ္ေနသူမ်ားကုိ လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈအကူအညီ ႏွင့္ ကာကြယ္ေစာင့္ေရွာက္မႈမ်ားေပးရန္ ႏွင့္ ယင္းတုိ႔၏ ေဘးကင္းလံုျခံဳမႈရွိေရး ႏွင့္ ဆႏၵအေလ်ာက္ ေနရပ္ျပန္ ေရး၊ ေဒသအတြင္း ေပါင္းစည္းေရး သုိ႔မဟုတ္ ျပန္လည္ေနရာခ်ထားေရးတုိ႔ကုိ အကူအညီေပးရန္ တာ၀န္ေပး အပ္ထားသည္႔ အဖြဲ႔အစည္းတစ္ခု ျဖစ္ပါသည္။
၁၉၅၀ ျပည့္ႏွစ္မွစတင္၍ UNICEF အဖြဲ႕သည္ ျမန္မာႏုိင္ငံအစုိးရႏွင့္ျပည္သူမ်ားႏွင့္ပူးေပါင္းလုပ္ကုိင္ေဆာင္ရြက္ ေနပါသည္။ အစုိးရႏွင့္အရပ္ဘက္လူ႔မႈအဖြဲ႕အစည္းမ်ားႏွင့္ မိတ္ဖက္ပူးေပါင္းလွ်က္ UNICEF ၏ လက္ရွိ အေလးထားေဆာင္ရြက္ေနသည့္လုပ္ငန္းမ်ားမွာ ကေလးသူငယ္ေသဆံုးမႈေလွ်ာ့ခ်ေရး၊ အရည္အေသြးျပည့္၀ၿပီး လက္လွမ္းမီေသာ ပညာေရး ျမႇင့္တင္ေပးျခင္း ႏွင့္ ကေလးသူငယ္မ်ား အၾကမ္းဖက္ခံရမႈ၊ ႏွိပ္စက္ညႇဥ္းပန္းမႈ ႏွင့္ ေခါင္းပံုျဖတ္မႈတုိ႔မွ ကာကြယ္မႈေပးျခင္း တုိ႔ကုိ ရည္မွန္းခ်က္ထားေဆာင္ရြက္ေပးပါသည္။
UN WOMEN သည္ က်ားမတန္းတူေရးႏွင့္ အမ်ိဳးသမီးမ်ားကို စြမ္းရည္ျမွင့္တင္ေရးကို လုပ္ေဆာင္ေနသည္႔ ကုလသမဂၢအဖြဲ႔အစည္းတစ္ခုျဖစ္ပါသည္။ ကမၻာေပၚရွိ အမ်ိဳးသမီးနွင့္ မိန္းကေလးမ်ားအတြက္ အဓိကလုပ္ေဆာင္သည္႔  ဦးေဆာင္အဖြဲ႔ျဖစ္ရာ ကမၻာတစ္၀န္းရွိ အမ်ိဳးသမီးမ်ား၏ လိုအပ္ခ်က္မ်ားကို ျဖည္႔ဆည္းေပးရာတြင္ အရွိန္အဟုန္ျမွင့္ေဆာင္ရြက္ႏိုင္ရန္အတြက္ UN Women ကိုဖြဲ႔စည္းခဲ႔ပါသည္။ အဖြဲ႔၀င္ႏိုင္ငံမ်ားအေနျဖင့္ က်ားမ တန္းတူညီမွ်မႈ ရရွိႏိုင္ရန္အတြက္ ကမာၻလံုးဆိုင္ရာစံႏႈန္းမ်ားခ်မွတ္ရာတြင္ UN Women မွ ပံ႔ပိုးေပးသကဲ႔သို႔၊ အစိုးရမ်ားႏွင့္ အရပ္ဖက္အဖြဲ႔အစည္းမ်ားႏွင့္ပူးေပါင္းကာ ဥပေဒမ်ား၊ မူ၀ါဒမ်ား၊ အစီအစဥ္မ်ားႏွင့္ လိုအပ္ေသာ ၀န္ေဆာင္မႈမ်ား ေရးဆြဲရာတြင္ စံႏႈန္းမ်ားႏွင့္အညီ အေကာင္အထည္ေဖာ္ႏိုင္ရန္ႏွင့္ ကမၻာတစ္၀ွမ္းရွိ အမ်ိဳးသမီးမ်ားႏွင့္ မိန္းကေလးမ်ား ေကာင္းစြာအက်ိဳးခံစားခြင့္ရရွိေစရန္ လုပ္ကိုင္လ်က္ရွိပါသည္။
WFP သည္ ကမၻာအႏွံ႔ငတ္မြတ္ေခါင္းပါးမႈတုိက္ဖ်က္ျခင္း၊ အေရးေပၚအေျခအေနမ်ားတြင္ စားနပ္ရိကၡာျဖန္႔ေ၀ ေပးျခင္း ႏွင့္ အဟာရဖြံ႕ၿဖိဳးေရးႏွင့္ၾကံၾကံခံႏုိင္စြမ္းတည္ေဆာက္ေရးတုိ႔အတြက္ ရပ္ရြာျပည္သူမ်ားႏွင့္လက္တြဲ လုပ္ေဆာင္ျခင္းတုိ႔ ေဆာင္ရြက္ေနသည့္ ကမၻာ့အႀကီးဆံုး လူသားခ်င္းစာနာမႈဆုိင္ရာ အေထာက္ျပဳ ေအဂ်င္စီ ျဖစ္ပါသည္။ ႏွစ္စဥ္ WFP သည္ ႏုိင္ငံေပါင္း ၈၀ ခန္႔ရွိ ျပည္သူေပါင္း သန္း ၈၀ ခန္႔ကုိ ပံ့ပုိးကူညီမႈမ်ားေပးေနပါ သည္။
Press release - PDF- English Version
Press release - PDF- Myanmar Version
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21798-new-partnership-reach-half-million-people-rakhine-humanitarian-and-development-aid




Date: 24 January 2018
Title: Address by the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Knut Ostby, at event for International Day of Commemoration in memory of Holocaust victims
Content: 24 January 2018
Address by the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Knut Ostby, at the event to commemorate the International Day of Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust.
Yangon University Arts Hall, 24th January 2018
Excellency U Naing Ngan Lin, Minister for Social Affairs, Yangon Region
Rector of Yangon University, Prof. Dr. Pho Kaung
Ambassador of Israel, Excellency Mr. Daniel Zonshine,
Ambassador of Germany, Excellency Mrs. Dorothee Janerzke- Wenzel
Honored guests, Professors and students from Yangon University, Mingalarbar.
Holocaust - Auk May Bweh - akhann annaar –goh - tet yauk thaw -gonthayay shii - lujee minn myar aalon, Mingalarbar.
(Mingalarbar to all the distinguished guests attending the Holocaust memorial ceremony.)
Allow me to first thank the Ministry of Education and Yangon University for hosting this event and the Embassy of Israel, the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Goethe Institute for your kind support in organizing the event today.
At the Sixtieth Session of the United Nations General Assembly, Member States adopted a resolution to commemorate memory of the victims of the Holocaust.  United Nations therefore designated 27 January as an annual International Day of Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust.
The theme of the Holocaust memorial ceremony this year, is “Holocaust Remembrance and Education: Our Shared Responsibility”. The theme highlights the universal dimension of the Holocaust and encourages education on this tragedy so that future generations will firmly reject all forms of racism, violence and anti-Semitism.
As we all know, the Holocaust did not happen in a vacuum.    Laws that enshrined discrimination were adopted.  Propaganda poisoned millions of minds. Step by step, social order broke down and people were drawn in – as perpetrators, as passive supporters, as victims, with genocide as the end result.  We have an obligation to never lose sight of what went wrong and how it happened.
In the lobby to this hall, you will see a set of prize- winning posters from the International Poster Competition, a joint project of Yad Vashem and The Holocaust and the United Nations Outreach Programme and endorsed by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance.
Students of Art and Design from participating countries were invited to submit original posters on the theme "Keeping the Memory Alive - Our Shared Responsibility” in keeping with the designated theme of the Holocaust and the United Nations Outreach Programme in 2018.
I would like to end with quoting what the UN Secretary-General said in his video message for this Day of Commemoration of the Holocaust:
(And I quote)
We must stand together against the normalization of hate.
Whenever and wherever humanity’s values are abandoned, we are all at risk.
All of us have a responsibility to quickly, clearly and decisively resist racism and violence.
Through education and understanding, we can build a future of dignity, human rights and peaceful coexistence for all. (End of quote)
Thank you very much.
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21795-address-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-knut-ostby-event-international-day




Date: 24 January 2018
Title: Statement on United Nations participation in Myanmar government meetings on health services on 21 January in Sittwe
Content: 24 January 2018

Several UN agencies were invited to join internal meetings between the Union and State governments in Sittwe on Sunday, 21 January. The discussions covered the extension of Sittwe hospital; the provision of health services on the outskirts of Thet Kel Pyin IDP camp which is designated for closure as part of the implementation of the Rakhine Advisory Commission recommendations; and the provision of health care for returnees, especially pregnant women, mothers and children.
Throughout these discussions, the UN stressed the need for refugees to be consulted and properly informed about what health services they may receive. The UN also emphasized that the return must be voluntary, safe, dignified and to the areas of origin.
The UN in Myanmar remains prepared to work with the government towards finding a long-term solution to this crisis in the interest of all communities in Rakhine State.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21796-statement-united-nations-participation-myanmar-government-meetings-health-services-21-january




Date: 08 December 2017
Title: United Nations Secretary General: Message for Human Rights Day 2017
Content: 08 December 2017
This year’s commemoration of Human Rights Day marks the beginning of a year-long celebration of seven decades since the adoption of one of the world’s most profound and far-reaching international agreements.  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights establishes the equality and dignity of every human being and stipulates that every government has a core duty to enable all people to enjoy all their inalienable rights and freedoms.
All of us have a right to speak freely and participate in decisions that affect our lives.  We all have a right to live free from all forms of discrimination.  We have a right to education, health care, economic opportunities and a decent standard of living.  We have rights to privacy and justice.  These rights are relevant to all of us, every day. They are the foundation of peaceful societies and sustainable development.
Since the proclamation of the Universal Declaration in 1948, human rights have been one of the three pillars of the United Nations, along with peace and development.  While human rights abuses did not end when the Universal Declaration was adopted, the Declaration has helped countless people to gain greater freedom and security.  It has helped to prevent violations, obtain justice for wrongs, and strengthen national and international human rights laws and safeguards.
Despite these advances, the fundamental principles of the Universal Declaration are being tested in all regions.  We see rising hostility towards human rights and those who defend them by people who want to profit from exploitation and division.  We see hatred, intolerance, atrocities and other crimes.  These actions imperil us all.
On this Human Rights Day, I want to acknowledge the brave human rights defenders and advocates, including UN staff, who work every day, sometimes in grave peril, to uphold human rights around the world.  I urge people and leaders everywhere to stand up for all human rights – civil, political, economic, social and cultural -- and for the values that underpin our hopes for a fairer, safer and better world for all.
Download PDF version.

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21790-united-nations-secretary-general-message-human-rights-day-2017




Date: 08 December 2017
Title: UN Secretary-General: Message on the International Day of Commemoration and Dignity of the Victims of the Crime of Genocide and the Prevention of this Crime
Content: 08 December 2017
Throughout history and still today, genocide has inflicted profound and painful losses on all humanity.  In 1948, with the unanimous adoption by the General Assembly of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, Member States recognized a common interest and duty to safeguard groups from threats to their very existence.  Coming so soon after the Holocaust and the Second World War, the Convention embodied a collective determination to protect people from brutality and to prevent any future such horror.
Genocide does not happen by accident; it is deliberate, with warning signs and precursors.  Often it is the culmination of years of exclusion, denial of human rights and other wrongs.  Since genocide can take place in times of war and in times of peace, we must be ever-vigilant.
Despite the clear definition of genocide in the Convention, as well as our improved understanding of the risks, genocide has recurred, multiple times.  We are still reacting rather than preventing, and acting only when it is often too late.  We must do more to respond early and keep violence from escalating. This is the obligation of the State parties to the Convention, one and all.
Although the Convention foresaw the possibility of punishment, it is only in the past two decades that individual perpetrators have been held accountable in an international court of law.  The 69th anniversary of the Genocide Convention coincides with the upcoming closure of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), the first international criminal tribunal with jurisdiction over genocide.  The convictions and jurisprudence of the ICTY and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, as well as the ongoing work of the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia and the International Criminal Court, reflect welcome resolve to punish this crime of all crimes.
As we commemorate the dignity of the victims of genocide, we should also commit to ensuring that affected communities are able to tell their stories, create a historical record of what happened and, in appropriate cases, receive reparations. We must also do more to shelter and protect those fleeing from armed conflict or persecution, and to speak out against hatred of all kinds.
I call upon all States to ratify the Genocide Convention by its 70th anniversary in 2018 and, in so doing, help liberate humanity from this cruel and odious crime.
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21789-un-secretary-general-message-international-day-commemoration-and-dignity-victims-crime




Date: 07 November 2017
Title: Security Council Presidential Statement Calls on Myanmar to End Excessive Military Force, Intercommunal Violence in Rakhine State
Content: 07 November 2017
Security Council Presidential Statement Calls on Myanmar to End Excessive Military Force, Intercommunal Violence in Rakhine State
Permanent Representative Says Text Places Undue Political Pressure on Government
Calling on the Myanmar Government to end the excessive military force and intercommunal violence that had devastated the Rohingya community in Rakhine State, the Security Council this afternoon urged the implementation of agreed‑upon mechanisms to assist return of those who have fled and to ensure access for humanitarian aid.
Through a statement read out by Sebastiano Cardi (Italy), its President for November, the Council condemned attacks against the Myanmar security forces by the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army on 25 August, while strongly condemning violence and abuses that had taken place since then that had displaced more than 607,000 people, the vast majority Rohingya, citing reports of systematic killing, sexual violence and destruction of homes.
Stressing the primary responsibility of the Government of Myanmar to protect its population, the Council emphasized the importance of reform in security and justice sectors in the country’s transition to democracy.  It urged the Government to work with Bangladesh and the United Nations to allow the voluntary return of refugees in conditions of safety and dignity to their homes, on the basis of a 24 October Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries.
Welcoming Myanmar’s decision to establish the “Union Enterprise Mechanism” for humanitarian assistance, resettlement and development in Rakhine, the Council urged the Government to ensure that the Mechanism supported such return and allowed United Nations agencies full access.  In that context, it urged the Governments and all humanitarian partners to pay special attention to the needs of women, particularly survivors of sexual violence.
In that regard, the Council welcomed the Myanmar Government’s public support for recommendations by the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State chaired by Kofi Annan and called for their full implementation.  It called in particular for protection of human rights without discrimination, including freedom of movement, access to basic services and equal access to full citizenship.  It stressed the importance of transparent investigations into allegations of human rights violations, and of holding to account all those responsible.
Commending the provision of humanitarian assistance and support for dialogue by Bangladesh, other countries of the region and regional organizations, the Council requested the Secretary‑General to continue to engage with the Government of Myanmar through good offices, encouraging him to consider appointing a special advisor on Myanmar.
Myanmar’s representative expressed serious concern over the statement, which would not help to resolve the issue as it placed undue political pressure on Myanmar and as some elements infringed the work of other United Nations organs. He said that on 25 August, terrorist attacks by the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army had triggered a tragedy, with foreign militants fighting beside the rebels.
To deal with that tragedy, his Government had reached out to Bangladesh and two Memoranda of Understanding had been signed, he said.  Although Myanmar rejected some elements in the presidential statement, it was determined to find a sustainable solution for the issue of Rakhine State.  His Government would continue to work with the international community, including the United Nations, towards peace and development there.
The representative of Bangladesh thanked the Council for a comprehensive statement, which could be a building block towards the timely and critical action that was needed.  Time was of the essence.  His country would continue to provide aid to the hundreds of thousands who had fled and would continue to engage Myanmar.
The complexity of the engagement could be seen in the denial of the real situation by Myanmar’s representative, he said.  Claims about terrorism in Rakhine State were only part of the “fiction” put forward by that delegate.  He expressed hope that today’s statement would result in actions to assist those on the ground, supporting the appointment of a special representative as well.  Among the priorities was adequate aid to those remaining, significant progress in the repatriation process and restoration of the rights and status of the Rohingya, he said.
The meeting began at 3:06 p.m. and ended at 3:30 p.m.
Presidential Statement
The full text of presidential statement S/PRST/2017/22 reads as follows:
“The Security Council condemns the attacks against Myanmar security forces carried out by the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA) on 25 August in Rakhine State and expresses grave concern over accounts that ARSA has been responsible for human rights abuses.
“The Security Council strongly condemns the widespread violence that has taken place in Rakhine State, Myanmar, since 25 August, which has led to the mass displacement of more than 607,000 individuals, the vast majority belonging to the Rohingya community.
“The Security Council further expresses grave concern over reports of human rights violations and abuses in Rakhine State, including by the Myanmar security forces, in particular against persons belonging to the Rohingya community, including those involving the systematic use of force and intimidation, killing of men, women, and children, sexual violence, and including the destruction and burning of homes and property.
“The Security Council reaffirms its strong commitment to the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity, and unity of Myanmar, and stresses its support to the Government of Myanmar in the pursuit and consolidation of its ongoing democratic transition process, emphasising the importance of reforms to promote accountable government institutions, especially in the security and justice sectors and to build the confidence of the people of Myanmar.
“The Security Council stresses the primary responsibility of the Government of Myanmar to protect its population including through respect for the rule of law and the respect, promotion and protection of human rights.
“The Security Council calls upon the Government of Myanmar to ensure no further excessive use of military force in Rakhine State, to restore civilian administration and apply the rule of law, and to take immediate steps in accordance with their obligations and commitments to respect human rights, including the human rights of women, children, and persons belonging to vulnerable groups, without discrimination and regardless of ethnicity, religion, or citizenship status, further calls on the Government of Myanmar to implement measures in line with resolution 2106 (2013) to prevent and respond to incidents of sexual violence, and encourages in this regard the Government of Myanmar to work with the Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict.
“The Security Council expresses further grave concern over accounts of intercommunal violence and calls upon the Government of Myanmar, to take all necessary measures to counter incitement to violence or hatred and restore peace and intercommunal harmony through dialogue, a comprehensive reconciliation process and by respecting the rule of law.
“The Security Council expresses alarm at the significantly and rapidly deteriorating humanitarian situation in Rakhine State and grave concern at the increasing number of refugees and internally displaced persons, which has a destabilising impact in the region.
“The Security Council notes the initial steps taken by the Government of Myanmar and humanitarian agencies to provide humanitarian assistance to individuals in Rakhine State, including through granting access to the World Food Programme, expresses its deep concern that humanitarian access remains severely limited and that humanitarian needs exceed the current levels of provision, and demands the Government of Myanmar to grant immediate, safe and unhindered access to United Nations agencies and their partners, as well as other domestic and international non‑governmental organizations, to provide humanitarian assistance in Rakhine State, as well as to ensure the safety and security of humanitarian personnel.
“The Security Council highly commends the efforts undertaken by the Government of Bangladesh, with the assistance of the United Nations, their partners and other non‑governmental organizations, to provide safety, shelter, and humanitarian assistance to those who have fled the violence, encourages the Government of Bangladesh to continue to do so until those who have fled the violence can return voluntarily, and in conditions of safety and dignity to their homes in Myanmar, with due regard to the principle of non‑refoulment, welcomes states’ provision of support to Bangladesh, and encourages states able to do so to provide further financial and logistical support to Bangladesh, the United Nations, in particular to the United Nations’ Rohingya Refugee Crisis Humanitarian Response Plan, and other humanitarian partners engaged in this effort.
“The Security Council welcomes the signing of a memorandum of understanding on 24 October 2017 between the Governments of Myanmar and Bangladesh on the situation in Rakhine State, urges the Government of Myanmar to work with the Government of Bangladesh and the United Nations to allow the voluntary return of all refugees in conditions of safety and dignity to their homes in Myanmar, welcomes in this regard the commitment to establish of the Joint Working Group between the Governments of Myanmar and Bangladesh to implement this process, urges the Governments of Myanmar and Bangladesh to invite the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other relevant international organizations to participate fully in the Joint Working Group and implementation of the returns process, further calls upon the Government of Myanmar to expedite the voluntary return of all internally displaced persons in conditions of safety and dignity to their homes in Myanmar.
“The Security Council welcomes the Government of Myanmar’s decision to establish ‘the Union Enterprise Mechanism for Humanitarian Assistance, Resettlement, and Development in Rakhine’ (the Union Enterprise Mechanism), as well as its commitment to ensure that humanitarian assistance and development work undertaken by the Union Enterprise Mechanism is provided for the benefit of all communities in Rakhine State without discrimination and regardless of religion or ethnicity, urges the Government of Myanmar to ensure the Union Enterprise Mechanism supports the voluntary, safe and dignified return of displaced individuals and refugees to their homes in Rakhine States, and to allow UN agencies to operate with full access in Rakhine State.
“The Security Council urges the Governments of Myanmar and Bangladesh, the United Nations, and other humanitarian partners to pay special attention to the specific needs of women and girls in all assessments, planning and delivery of humanitarian assistance and to ensure the availability of specialised medical and psychosocial services for survivors of sexual violence.
“The Security Council commends the continued efforts of countries of the region and regional organizations, in particular the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and the European Union, in providing humanitarian assistance and supporting dialogue between all relevant stakeholders.
“The Security Council calls upon the Government of Myanmar to address the root causes of the crisis in Rakhine State by respecting, promoting and protecting human rights, without discrimination and regardless of ethnicity or religion, including by allowing freedom of movement, equal access to basic services, and equal access to full citizenship for all individuals.
“The Security Council welcomes the Government of Myanmar’s public commitment to implement the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State chaired by Kofi Annan, as well as the establishment of a ministerial‑level committee to implement the recommendations, and urges all parts of the Government of Myanmar to work together to implement these recommendations swiftly and in full.
“The Security Council stresses the importance of undertaking transparent investigations into allegations of human rights abuses and violations, including sexual violence and abuse and violence against children, and of holding to account all those responsible for such acts to provide justice for victims.
“In this regard, the Security Council calls upon the Government of Myanmar to cooperate with all relevant United Nations bodies, mechanisms and instruments, in particular the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, and to continue further consultations on opening a country office of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR).
“The Security Council calls upon the Government of Myanmar to urgently grant domestic and international media organizations full and unhindered access to Rakhine State and throughout the country and to ensure the safety and security of media personnel.
“The Security Council requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide his good offices and to pursue his discussions with the Government of Myanmar, involving all relevant stakeholders, to offer assistance to the Government of Myanmar in this regard and encourages him to consider, as appropriate, appointing a Special Adviser on Myanmar.
“The Security Council remains determined to continue to closely follow the situation in Myanmar and requests the Secretary‑General to brief the Security Council on developments on the situation in Rakhine after 30 days from the adoption of this statement.”
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21787-security-council-presidential-statement-calls-myanmar-end-excessive-military-force




Date: 20 October 2017
Title: Message of UN Secretary General on UN Day 2017
Content: 20 October 2017
Our world faces many grave challenges.
Widening conflicts and inequality.
Extreme weather and deadly intolerance.
Security threats – including nuclear weapons.
We have the tools and wealth to overcome these challenges. All we need is the will.
The world’s problems transcend borders.
We have to transcend our differences to transform our future.
When we achieve human rights and human dignity for all people – they will build a peaceful, sustainable and just world.
On United Nations Day, let us, ‘We the Peoples’, make this vision a reality.
Thank you.  Shokran.  Xie Xie.  Merci.  Spasibo.  Gracias.  Obrigado. Yet
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21780-message-un-secretary-general-un-day-2017




Date: 18 October 2017
Title: Note to Correspondents: Visit of the United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs to Myanmar
Content: 18 October 2017
Note to correspondents:
Visit of the United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs to Myanmar
United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs Jeffrey Feltman visited Myanmar from October 13 to October 17 at the invitation of the Government.  In Yangon and Nay Pyi Taw, he met with State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and Tatmadaw Commander-in-Chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, among other officials, as well as with representatives of Myanmar’s civil society. He attended the ceremony commemorating the signing of Myanmar’s historic National Ceasefire Agreement and met with the signatory ethnic organizations.  He also met with the resident diplomatic community and representatives of international NGOs.
Most of Under-Secretary-General Feltman’s discussions focused on the situation in Rakhine State and the plight of the hundreds of thousands of refugees who have fled to Bangladesh in the aftermath of the 25 August attacks on security positions and subsequent military action. He reiterated Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’ call that humanitarian actors be given full and unhindered access to northern Rakhine State and that refugees be allowed voluntary, safe and dignified return to their place of origin.
Acknowledging the announcements by the Government of Myanmar, including the State Counsellor’s address to the nation on 12 October, regarding the establishment of programs and policies to address the humanitarian concerns in Rakhine and the return of refugees from Bangladesh, the Under-Secretary-General encouraged the authorities to utilize the capacities, best practices, and extensive experience of the United Nations to help assure that stated intentions could be implemented in a timely and effective manner.
In northern Rakhine, the Under-Secretary-General viewed dozens of burned and destroyed villages by air and visited several communities affected by the recent violence. He also visited internally displaced persons’ camps outside Sittwe, set up in 2012. He witnessed how, in addition to the documented endemic discrimination against the Rohingya population, socio-economic challenges adversely affect all communities.  Mr. Feltman noted the Government’s endorsement of the recommendations of the final report of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State and urged their comprehensive implementation, which the United Nations can help support if so requested.
In discussions with Tatmadaw officials, the Under-Secretary-General noted that, in the UN’s experience, successful counter-terrorism efforts do not rely exclusively on security measures.  He urged the Tatmadaw to support the full implementation of the Advisory Commission’s recommendations and credible investigations into allegations of human rights abuses by security officials in Rakhine.  He underscored the importance of accountability and non-discriminatory rule of law and public safety as part of the comprehensive approach needed to address the fears and distrust among communities in Rakhine.
The United Nations is committed to supporting Myanmar and Bangladesh in their efforts to find a sustainable solution to the plight of the refugees and people affected by the recent violence and mass displacement. Returning to New York, Mr. Feltman will report to the Secretary-General as the United Nations continues to respond to the humanitarian and human rights crisis and positions itself to work with Myanmar to help relieve the suffering of the Rohingya population and address the grievances and needs of Rakhine and other ethnic groups.
Yangon/New York, 17 October 2017
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21779-note-correspondents-visit-united-nations-under-secretary-general-political-affairs-myanmar




Date: 11 October 2017
Title: Statement by the Office of the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Myanmar
Content: 11 October 2017
The UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator Renata Lok-Dessallien announced today that she will be completing her assignment after nearly four years in Myanmar.
The Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator will use her remaining time until the end of the month to further the UN system’s efforts to promote peace and security, human rights, as well as humanitarian and development assistance for all people in Myanmar. She will continue to urge for the end of violence in the northern townships of Rakhine State, to allow full access for humanitarian aid, and to ensure the safe, dignified and sustainable return of refugees and IDPs to their places of origin.
The Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator expresses her gratitude to the Government and the people of Myanmar for the opportunity to serve in the country. She thanks her UN colleagues and partners for their exceptional commitment to promoting UN principles. She also appreciates the Secretary-General’s confidence in the UN team in Myanmar.
The departure of the Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator is a part of a succession process announced in the spring of this year. Renata Lok-Dessallien will be taking on another assignment at headquarters.
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21777-statement-office-un-resident-and-humanitarian-coordinator-myanmar




Date: 01 October 2017
Title: Statement following government-organized visit to northern Rakhine
Content: 01 October 2017
The UN appreciates the Government of Myanmar’s invitation to participate in the visit to northern Rakhine organized by national authorities for diplomatic community and the UN.
This was a positive step and such visits, under appropriate conditions, could help in our efforts to explore potential areas where the UN could cooperate with the Myanmar authorities in alleviating the dire situation in northern Rakhine.
Three UN representatives participated in the field visit -- the UN Resident Coordinator Ms. Renata Lok-Dessallien; the WFP representative and Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator, Mr. Domenico Scalpelli, and senior UNHCR official Ms. Cécile Fradot.
The scale of human suffering is unimaginable and the UN extends its deepest condolences to all those affected.
The UN advocates for the end to the cycle of violence and for establishing law and order and the rule of law; to allow unfettered access for humanitarian support; and to ensure the safe, voluntary, dignified and sustainable return of the refugees to their areas of origin.
The UN used the field visit also to send a signal of hope to the people in the affected areas, as well as to connect with its staff in northern Rakhine.
The UN delegation reiterated the need for a greater access for humanitarian and human rights actors to conduct comprehensive assessments of the situation on the ground in order to address the concerns and needs of all communities in affected areas. The UN called also for access for the media.
Building on this visit, the UN looks forward to strengthening trust and cooperation with all communities and the Myanmar Government. This will be critical in addressing the root causes and setting a sustainable path towards peace and prosperity of all people in Rakhine State, irrespective of ethnicity, religion or citizenship status.
The UN stands ready to provide its full support to the authorities in responding to the humanitarian and human rights crisis in northern Rakhine, as well as the implementation of the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State.
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21776-statement-following-government-organized-visit-northern-rakhine




Date: 30 September 2017
Title: Note to Correspondents on Myanmar
Content: 30 September 2017
The United Nations strongly disagrees with allegations against the UN Resident Coordinator in Myanmar, Renata Lok-Dessallien. The Secretary-General has full confidence in the Resident Coordinator and her Team.
The UN has consistently and strongly focused on protection of human rights and inclusive development on behalf of all the people of Myanmar, irrespective of ethnicity, religion or citizenship status. The Resident Coordinator has been a tireless advocate for human rights, conflict prevention, and humanitarian and development assistance in Rakhine State. She has drawn attention to rights abuses and called for credible investigations; advocated against incitement to violence; and supported efforts to promote inter-communal harmony. The UN in Myanmar, led by the Resident Coordinator, works with a wide array of government and non-government partners to help enhance Myanmar’s capacities to tackle root causes of conflict, to strengthen democratic institutions, to expand access to justice and to reduce poverty. Human rights stand at the center of everything the UN does, and this includes the rollout of the Human Right Up Front by her team.
In the Secretary-General’s address to the Security Council yesterday, he called on the Myanmar authorities to take three immediate steps: to end the military operations; to allow unfettered access for humanitarian support; and to ensure the safe, voluntary, dignified and sustainable return of the refugees to their areas of origin.
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21775-note-correspondents-myanmar




Date: 29 September 2017
Title: UN Secretary General remarks at open debate of the Security Council on Myanmar
Content: 29 September 2017
Remarks at open debate of the Security Council on Myanmar
[as delivered]
I welcome this opportunity to brief you on the crisis in Myanmar.
On September 2nd, I wrote to this Council urging concerted efforts to prevent further escalation of the crisis in northern Rakhine state.  

I am encouraged that the Council has discussed the situation four times in less than a month.
The reality on the ground demands action -- swift action -- to protect people, alleviate suffering, prevent further instability, address the root causes of the situation and forge, at long last, a durable solution.
The following briefing is based on our reporting from the ground, and is our best sense of what has happened, what is still happening, and what needs to be done.
The current crisis has steadily deteriorated since the August 25 attacks by the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army on the Myanmar security forces.  I repeat my condemnation of those attacks today.
Since then, the situation has spiraled into the world’s fastest developing refugee emergency and a humanitarian and human rights nightmare.
I continue to call on the Myanmar authorities to take three immediate steps:
First, to end the military operations;
Second, to allow unfettered access for humanitarian support;
And third, to ensure the safe, voluntary, dignified and sustainable return of the refugees to their areas of origin.
Let me now review what we know about the military operations that have taken place since August 25th.
While there have been competing narratives in a highly complex environment, certain elements are clear.
At least 500,000 civilians have fled their homes and sought safety in Bangladesh.
Although the total number of those displaced is unknown, it is estimated that 94 per cent of them are Rohingya.
The devastating humanitarian situation is not only a breeding ground for radicalization, it
also puts vulnerable people – including young children –
at risk of criminal elements including trafficking.
We have received bone-chilling accounts from those who fled -- mainly women, children and the elderly.
These testimonies point to excessive violence and serious violations of human rights, including indiscriminate firing of weapons, the presence of landmines and sexual violence.
This is unacceptable and must end immediately.
International human rights law and standards are clear:  any use of force by the authorities must respect Myanmar's human rights obligations under international law and comply with well-established human rights standards.  Above all, these actions must fully respect the human rights of those affected, regardless of ethnicity or religion.
The use of lethal force, even in situations of emergency, must be commensurate with the threat to the public order and utmost care must be taken to minimize loss of life and injury, especially for unarmed people and communities.
The authorities have claimed that security operations ended on September 5th, following major displacements in northern Rakhine, where Rohingya were the majority.
However, displacement appears to have continued, with reports of the burning of Muslim villages, as well as looting and acts of intimidation.
Myanmar authorities themselves have indicated that at least 176 of 471 Muslim villages in northern Rakhine have been totally abandoned.
In Rathedaung Township, three quarters of the Rohingya population has fled.  Most villages and all three of the former internally displaced persons camps have been burnt to the ground.  Just five isolated Muslim communities remain in Rathedaung.
Elsewhere too, a majority of the abandoned villages were majority Muslim.
There seems to be a deeply disturbing pattern to the violence and ensuing large movements of an ethnic group from their homes.
The failure to address this systematic violence could result in a spill-over into central Rakhine, where an additional 250,000 Muslims could potentially face displacement.  They are outnumbered by Rakhine communities, some of whom have engaged in violent acts of vigilantism against their Muslim neighbours.
The violence in Rakhine – whether by the military or radical elements within communities – must end.
The Myanmar authorities must fulfil their fundamental obligation of ensuring the safety and security of all communities and upholding the rule of law without discrimination.
Let me now turn to the question of humanitarian access.
It is imperative that UN agencies and our non-governmental partners be granted immediate and safe access to all affected communities.
I am deeply concerned by the current climate of antagonism towards the United Nations and non-governmental organizations.  Indeed, this can lead to unacceptable violence, such as the recent attacks against the ICRC by Rakhine villagers in Sittwe.
The Myanmar authorities have said repeatedly in the past few days that “it was not the time”
for unhindered access to resume.
Given the enormous needs, this position is deeply regrettable.  The United Nations and its partners should be allowed to reach the affected areas without delay.
I would also like to address the issue of safe return of refugees to their places of origin.
I ask members of the Security Council to join me in urging that all those who have fled to Bangladesh be able to exercise their right to a safe, voluntary, dignified and sustainable return to their homes.
Myanmar authorities have committed to use the framework established in the 1993 Joint Statement of the Foreign Ministers of Bangladesh and Myanmar to facilitate these returns.
While that may be a useful starting point, it is not sufficient in the present circumstances.  
Notably, the framework does not refer to resolving the root cause of displacement.  Moreover, it requires documents that the fleeing Rohingya may not be able to provide.
The United Nations is committed to a plan for voluntary return and calls upon the international community to support such an effort.  This should include development assistance to the villages of those who return home, and the implementation of the Rakhine Advisory Commission recommendations regarding verification and citizenship.
Voluntary repatriation also requires, as a critical first step, the registration of refugees in Bangladesh using internationally accepted standards.
The United Nations is ready to support Myanmar and Bangladesh in all stages of this important process.
Ensuring the safe, voluntary and dignified return of refugees to Rakhine – in line with international refugee law – will require the restoration of mutual trust among the communities.
Improving inter-communal relations is a critical part of a sustainable resolution to the crisis and one of the essential recommendations of the Rakhine Advisory Commission, led by Kofi Annan.
In this highly complex environment, the Myanmar authorities must work to defuse tensions
and uphold and protect the rights of all communities, including respect for property rights.
Those who fled should be able to return to their homes in peace – not to yet another cycle of violence.
It will be especially important to avoid re-locating those displaced yet again to camp-like conditions.
In Bangladesh, the United Nations continues to step up our humanitarian response.
The High Commissioner for Refugees visited just days ago.
In the next two weeks, the World Food Programme, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the International Organization for Migration and UNICEF will visit the Bangladesh border area.
On October 9th, UNHCR, OCHA and IOM will convene a donor’s conference.
In my meeting last week with Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, I expressed great appreciation for the care being provided to refugees.  I commend those countries that are supporting Bangladesh in its response.
Let me also stress the need for strengthened cooperation between Myanmar and Bangladesh and I welcome the upcoming high-level visit of Myanmar officials to Bangladesh.
The crisis has generated multiple implications for neighbouring States and the larger region, including the risk of inter-communal strife.
We should not be surprised if decades of discrimination and double standards in treatment of the Rohingya create openings for radicalization.  
In moving forward, we need an effective partnership with the Myanmar authorities, especially the military.  All involved should refrain from any actions that could exacerbate the precarious situation on the ground.
I welcome the participation here today of National Security Adviser U Thaung Tun – as well as the Permanent Representative of Bangladesh, Masud Bin Momen.
I appreciate the National Security Adviser’s efforts to engage in dialogue with various stakeholders
during the high-level week of the General Assembly.
In addition to discussions with the United Nations Secretariat on future cooperation, the Myanmar delegation has reached out to Bangladesh to revive dialogue.
Myanmar has also engaged the Association of Southeast Asian Nations for desperately needed humanitarian assistance.
I look forward to effective and credible follow-up to the authorities’ stated commitment to greater access, including for the international community, the media and humanitarian actors.
The regional cooperation with Myanmar will also be essential, and the United Nations fully stands behind this.
I welcome the important role played by Foreign Minister Retno [Marsudi] of Indonesia in this
respect. She has been advocating for an approach that echoes the three steps I have been emphasizing and is also what many countries have been seeking.
The crisis has underlined an urgent need for a political solution to the root causes of the violence.
The core of the problem is protracted statelessness and its associated discrimination.
The recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine provide a blueprint for the longer-term future.
The Muslims of Rakhine State should be granted nationality.  The present Myanmar citizenship legislation only allows it partially.  We encourage Myanmar to revise it in line with international standards.
In the interim, an effective verification exercise as previously foreseen should allow those entitled to be granted citizenship according to the present laws.
All others must be able to obtain a legal status that allows them to lead a normal life, including freedom of movement and access to labour markets, education and health services.
I appeal to the leaders of Myanmar, including military leaders, to condemn incitement to racial hatred and violence, and take all measures to defuse tensions between communities.
We have taken good note of declarations by Myanmar authorities that no one is above the law.  There is a clear need to ensure accountability for perpetrators of human rights violations, to curb the current violence and to prevent future abuses.
The United Nations will remain a close partner to Myanmar to address these urgent issues.
We have no agenda other than to help Myanmar advance the well-being of all the country’s people.
We have no interest other than to see all communities enjoying peace, security, prosperity and mutual respect.
And we are committed to nothing less than easing the heart-breaking suffering of so many vulnerable people while forging a lasting solution that affirms shared values, promotes mutual respect and upholds human dignity.
I call on the Security Council to stand united and to support efforts to urgently end this tragedy.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21774-un-secretary-general-remarks-open-debate-security-council-myanmar




Date: 25 September 2017
Title: UN Secretary-General's remarks at the ASEAN-UN Ministerial Meeting
Content: 25 September 2017
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Mr. Chairman, let me begin by congratulating the Government of the Republic of the Philippines for chairing ASEAN in its 50th anniversary year.
I commend ASEAN’s progress over the past half century towards peaceful co-existence and regional integration.
Multilateralism and regional integration are absolutely vital in our world today representing an opportunity to promote prosperity as well as advance human rights and the rule of law.
Under the ASEAN-UN Comprehensive Partnership, I believe we can intensify our work in a number of areas, including integrating our efforts in peace and security, sustainable development, human rights and humanitarian action with close attention to prevention.
With respect to prevention, I repeat my call for all parties to resolve their disputes, including maritime disputes, in a peaceful manner, in conformity with international law, and to avoid unnecessary escalation or provocation.
The recent adoption of the framework of a Code of Conduct in the South China Sea is a positive step towards an early conclusion of that Code.
I welcome the efforts of ASEAN Foreign Ministers to de-escalate tensions on the Korean Peninsula through dialogue within the ASEAN Regional Forum.
I also wish to thank you for the growing contribution from ASEAN Member States to United Nations peace operations, which now exceeds 4,000 personnel.
Terrorism and violent extremism threaten all countries, including in the ASEAN region.
Our new UN Office of Counter-Terrorism and the wider UN system stand ready to support ASEAN in addressing these complex threats through regional cooperation.
We have an important opportunity to advance regional approaches in the upcoming ASEAN-UN Regional Dialogue on the Role of Women in Prevention of Violent Extremism in Malaysia.
ASEAN’s leadership is also needed to confront transnational organized crime, including piracy and human trafficking, which is expanding everywhere in the world but also in the ASEAN region.
I encourage further regional cooperation on migration issues. This includes allowing refugees in ASEAN Member States to join the migrant workforce, and attend schools in their host countries.
I welcome ASEAN’s strong leadership on sustainable development, in close partnership with the United Nations. The 2030 Agenda and the ASEAN Community Vision 2025 are complementary and mutually reinforcing.
Finally, allow me to reiterate my deep concern at the crisis in Rakhine State in Myanmar and its serious implications for stability in ASEAN and the wider region.
I have strongly condemned the attack of August 25 carried out against the Myanmar security forces in northern areas of Rakhine State.
I also continue to call for three immediate actions, namely, the suspension of military and security operations; unfettered access for humanitarian agencies to affected communities; and that those who fled should be able to exercise their right of safe return.
The United Nations welcomes constructive approaches by ASEAN Member States, as well as the provision of humanitarian assistance. I hope that ASEAN can intensify its actions as the time to act is now.
The United Nations stands ready to work with ASEAN to help resolve the root causes of the crisis, including through supporting the Government of Myanmar in the implementation of the final report of the
Advisory Commission on Rakhine State led by Kofi Annan.
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I look forward to the ASEAN-UN Summit later this year in the Philippines at which I strongly hope to be present. It would be a great pleasure for me.
I wish you great success for everything you are doing for the benefit of your people as you look to the
future.
Thank you.
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21773-un-secretary-generals-remarks-asean-un-ministerial-meeting




Date: 21 September 2017
Title: UN Secretary-General's Address to the General Assembly
Content: 21 September 2017

New York
I am here in a spirit of gratitude and humility for the trust you have placed in me to serve the world’s peoples. “We the peoples”, and the United Nations, face grave challenges.
Our world is in trouble.  People are hurting and angry.  They see insecurity rising, inequality growing, conflict spreading and climate changing.  The global economy is increasingly integrated, but our sense of global community may be disintegrating.
Societies are fragmented.  Political discourse is polarized.  Trust within and among countries is being driven down by those who demonize and divide. We are a world in pieces.  We need to be a world at peace. And I strongly believe that, together, we can build peace.  We can restore trust and create a better world for all.
I will focus today on seven threats and tests that stand in our way. For each, the dangers are all too clear.  Yet for each, if we act as truly united nations, we can find answers.
First, the nuclear peril.
The use of nuclear weapons should be unthinkable.  Even the threat of their use can never be condoned. But today global anxieties about nuclear weapons are at the highest level since the end of the Cold War. The fear is not abstract.  Millions of people live under a shadow of dread cast by the provocative nuclear and missile tests of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Within the DPRK itself, such tests do nothing to ease the plight of those who are suffering hunger and severe violations of their human rights. I condemn those tests unequivocally. I call on the DPRK and all Member States to comply fully with Security Council resolutions.
Last week’s unanimous adoption of resolution 2375 tightens sanctions and sends a clear message regarding the country’s international obligations. I appeal to the Council to maintain its unity. Only that unity can lead to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and -- as the resolution recognizes -- create an opportunity for diplomatic engagement to resolve the crisis.
When tensions rise, so does the chance of miscalculation.  Fiery talk can lead to fatal misunderstandings. The solution must be political.  This is a time for statesmanship. We must not sleepwalk our way into war. More broadly, all countries must show greater commitment to the universal goal of a world without nuclear weapons.  The nuclear-weapon states have a special responsibility to lead.
Today, proliferation is creating unimaginable danger, and disarmament is paralyzed. There is an urgent need to prevent proliferation, to promote disarmament and to preserve gains made in these directions. These goals are linked.  Progress on one will generate progress on the other.
Let me turn to the global threat of terrorism. Nothing justifies terrorism -- no cause, no grievance.
Terrorism continues to take a rising toll of death and devastation. It is destroying societies, destabilizing regions and diverting energy from more productive pursuits. National and multilateral counter-terrorism efforts have indeed disrupted networks, reclaimed territory, prevented attacks and saved lives.
But we need to intensify this work.  Stronger international cooperation remains crucial against terrorism.   I am grateful to the General Assembly for approving one of my first reform initiatives: the establishment of the UN Office on Counter-Terrorism.  Next year, I intend to convene the first-ever gathering of heads of counter-terrorism agencies of Member States to forge a new International Counter-Terrorism Partnership.
But it is not enough to fight terrorists on the battlefield or to deny them funds.  We must do more to address the roots of radicalization, including real and perceived injustices and high levels of unemployment and grievance among young people.
Political, religious and community leaders have a duty to stand up against hatred and serve as models of tolerance and moderation. Together, we need to make full use of UN instruments, and expand our efforts to support survivors. Experience has also shown that harsh crackdowns and heavy-handed approaches are counterproductive.
As soon as we believe that violations of human rights and democratic freedoms are necessary to win the fight, we might have lost the war.
Third, unresolved conflicts and systematic violations of international humanitarian law.
We are all shocked by the dramatic escalation of sectarian tensions in Myanmar’s Rakhine State.  A vicious cycle of persecution, discrimination, radicalization and violent repression has led more than 400,000 desperate people to flee, putting regional stability at risk.
I take note of State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi’s address today – and her intention to implement the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State that was chaired by Kofi Annan within the shortest time possible.
Let me emphasize again: The authorities in Myanmar must end the military operations, allow unhindered humanitarian access and recognize the right of refugees to return in safety and dignity.  They must also address the grievances of the Rohingya, whose status has been left unresolved for far too long.
No one is winning today’s wars. From Syria to Yemen, from South Sudan to the Sahel, Afghanistan and elsewhere, only political solutions can bring peace.
We should have no illusions.  We will not be able to eradicate terrorism if we do not resolve the conflicts that are creating the disorder within which violent extremists flourish.
Last week I announced the creation of a High-Level Advisory Board on Mediation.  Those eminent individuals will allow us to be more effective in brokering peace around the world.
The United Nations is forging closer partnerships with key regional organizations such as the African Union, the European Union, the League of Arab States and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
We continue to strengthen and modernize peacekeeping – protecting civilians and saving lives around the world.
And since taking office, I have sought to bring together the parties to conflict, as well as those that have influence on them.
As a meaningful example, I am particularly hopeful about tomorrow’s meeting on Libya.
Last month, I visited Israel and Palestine.  We must not let today’s stagnation in the peace process lead to tomorrow’s escalation.  We must restore the hopes of the people. The two-state solution remains the only way forward.  It must be pursued urgently. But I must be frank: in too many cases,  the warring parties believe war is the answer.
They may speak of a willingness to compromise. But their actions too often betray a thirst for outright military victory, at any cost. Violations of international humanitarian law are rampant, and impunity prevails. Civilians are paying the highest price, with women and girls facing systematic violence and oppression.
I have seen in my country, and in my years at the United Nations, that it is possible to move from war to peace, and from dictatorship to democracy.  Let us push ahead with a surge in diplomacy today and a leap in conflict prevention for tomorrow.
Fourth, climate change puts our hopes in jeopardy. Last year was the hottest ever.  The past decade has been the hottest on record. Average global temperature keeps climbing, glaciers are receding and permafrost is declining.
Millions of people and trillions of assets are at risk from rising seas and other climate disruptions.
The number of natural disasters has quadrupled since 1970. The United States, followed by China, India, the Philippines and Indonesia, have experienced the most disasters since 1995 – more than 1,600, or once every five days.
I stand in solidarity with the people of the Caribbean and the United States who have just suffered through Hurricane Irma, the longest-lasting Category 5 storm ever recorded. And Maria is already on its way.
We should not link any single weather event with climate change.  But scientists are clear that such extreme weather is precisely what their models predict will be the new normal of a warming world.
We have had to update our language to describe what is happening: we now talk of mega-hurricanes, superstorms and rain bombs.   It is time to get off the path of suicidal emissions.  We know enough today to act.  The science is unassailable.
I urge Governments to implement the historic Paris Agreement with ever greater ambition. I commend those cities that are setting bold targets. I welcome the initiatives of the thousands of private enterprises – including major oil and gas companies – that are betting on a clean, green future.
Energy markets tell us that green business is good business. The falling cost of renewables is one of the most encouraging stories on the planet today. So is the growing evidence that economies can grow as emissions go down. New markets, more jobs, opportunities to generate trillions in economic output. The facts are clear.  Solutions are staring us in the face. Leadership needs to catch up.
Finally, I want to talk about human mobility, which I do not perceive as a threat even if some do.  I see it as a challenge that, if properly managed, can help bring the world together.
Let us be clear: we do not only face a refugee crisis; we also face a crisis of solidarity.
Every country has the right to control its own borders.  But that must be done in a way that protects the rights of people on the move.
Instead of closed doors and open hostility, we need to re-establish the integrity of the refugee protection regime and the simple decency of human compassion.  With a truly global sharing of responsibility, the number of refugees we face can be managed.
But too many states have not risen to the moment. I commend those countries that have shown admirable hospitality to millions of forcibly displaced people.  We need to do more to support them.
We also need to do more to face the challenges of migration.  The truth is that the majority of migrants move in a well-ordered fashion, making positive contributions to their host countries and homelands.
It is when migrants move in unregulated ways that the risks become clear – risks for states but most especially risks for migrants themselves exposed to perilous journeys.
Migration has always been with us.
Climate change, demographics, instability, growing inequalities, and aspirations for a better life, as well as unmet needs in labour markets, mean it is here to stay.
The answer is effective international cooperation in managing migration to ensure that its benefits are most widely distributed, and that the human rights of all concerned are properly protected.
From my experience, I can assure you that most people prefer to realize their aspirations at home.
We must work together; development cooperation must be oriented in such a way to make sure that they can do so. Migration should be an option, not a necessity. We also need a much stronger commitment of the international community to crack down on human traffickers, and to protect their victims.
But let us be clear, we will not end the tragedies on the Mediterranean, the Andaman Sea and elsewhere without creating more opportunities for regular migration. This will benefit migrants and countries alike.
I myself am a migrant, as are many of you in this room. But no one expected me to risk my life on a leaky boat or to cross a desert in the back of a truck to find employment outside my country of birth.
Safe migration cannot be limited to the global elite. Refugees, internally displaced persons and migrants are not the problem; the problem lies in conflict, persecution and hopeless poverty.
I have been pained to see the way refugees and migrants have been stereotyped and scapegoated – and to see political figures stoke resentment in search of electoral gain.
In today’s world, all societies are becoming multicultural, multiethnic and multi-religious.   This diversity must be seen as a richness, not as a threat.  But to make diversity a success, we need to invest in social cohesion, so that all people feel that their identities are respected and that they have a stake in the community as a whole.
We need to reform our world, and I am committed to reforming the United Nations.
Together, we have embarked on a comprehensive reform effort:
-- to build a UN development system to support States in bettering peoples’ lives;
-- to reinforce our ability to safeguard people’s peace, security and human rights;
-- and to embrace management practices that advance those goals instead of hindering them.
We have launched a new victims-centered approach to preventing sexual exploitation and abuse.
We have a roadmap to achieve gender parity at the United Nations – and we are already on our way.
We are here to serve: to relieve the suffering of “we the peoples”; and to help fulfill their dreams.
We come from different corners of the world. Our cultures, religions and traditions vary widely – and, I would say, wonderfully. At times, there are competing interests among us. At others, there is even open conflict. That is exactly why we need the United Nations. That is exactly why multilateralism is more important than ever. We call ourselves the international community.
We must act as one, because only together, as united nations, can we fulfil the promise of the Charter and advance human dignity for all.
Thank you.
*****
Download PDF version.
Watch the video on webcast.un.org:
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21772-un-secretary-generals-address-general-assembly




Date: 18 September 2017
Title: Zero tolerance for sexual harassment and abuse
Content: 18 September 2017
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres today called on the world to stand in solidarity to condemn sexual exploitation and abuse as he detailed the key initiatives at the heart of his victim-centred approach to address the scourge across the UN system.
“Sexual exploitation and abuse has no place in our world,”, Mr. Guterres said in his remarks to the unprecedented High-Level Meeting on the Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse at UN Headquarters today.
“It is a global menace and it must end,” he added.
The high-level political event demonstrates the international community's solidarity in condemning and committing to combating the scourge – while placing victims' rights and dignity at the forefront of collective efforts.
Underscoring the need for “bold, urgent and much-needed action to root out sexual exploitation and abuse once and for all,” Mr. Guterres said: “We are here in solidarity to specifically focus on the behaviour of individuals who exploit their authority to mistreat those who look to the United Nations for protection.”
The UN chief emphasized that the unspeakable acts of a few should not be allowed to tarnish the work of thousands of men and women who uphold the UN's values “often at great personal risk and sacrifice.”
Stressing that no country or family is immune, the Secretary-General notes that the UN has a responsibility to set a global standard for preventing, responding to and eradicating the scourge – and addressing its impact.“It pains me to say that this behaviour is perpetrated by both civilians and uniformed personnel, and in settings ranging from humanitarian crises to peace operations to refugee camps – where people are vulnerable and public safety is largely absent,” said Mr. Guterres.
--
More Information/Resources:

Table of UN links for reporting sexual harassment and abuse of authority in the workplace
Download the PDF version of the table
UN 24/7 helpline for sexual harassment*
+1 (917) 367-8910 or email speakup@un.org
Office of the Internal Oversight Services (OIOS)*
https://unvoiosctxwi.unvienna.org/OIOSIDWDR/?AspxAutoDetectCookieSuppor…;
FAO
investigations-hotline@fao.org
Email: Ethics-Office@fao.org
Phone 1: +39 06 57054151
Phone 2: +39 06 57053956
ILO
Email: ETHICS@ilo.org
IOM
https://www.iom.int/ethics-and-conduct-office
Email: Ethics&ConductOffice@iom.int
UNAIDS
https://unvoiosctxwi.unvienna.org/OIOSIDWDR/?AspxAutoDetectCookieSuppor…
UNDP, UNV
http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/accountability/audit/office-of…;
Email: reportmisconduct@undp.org
UNESCO
https://secure.unesco.org/survey/index.php?sid=48128&lang=en
Email: ethics@unesco.org
UNFPA
https://web2.unfpa.org/help/hotline.cfm
Email: investigationshotline@unfpa.org
Phone: +1 (212) 297 5200
Post: UNFPA, Private and Confidential attention of the
Director, Office of Audit and Investigation Services, 605
Third Avenue, 5th floor, New York, NY 10158, USA
UNHCR
http://www.unhcr.org/igo-complaints.html
Email: inspector@unhcr.org
Hotline: +41 22 739 8844
Fax: +41 22 739 7380
Post: 94 Rue de Montbrillant, 1202 Geneva-CH
http://www.unhcr.org/igo-complaints.html
UNICEF
Email: integrity1@unicef.org
Post: Director Office of Internal Audit and Investigation
(OIAI) Investigation Section, United Nations Children's
Fund, Three United Nations Plaza, New York, New York
10017, United States of America
UNIDO
https://unvoiosctxwi.unvienna.org/OIOSIDWDR/?AspxAutoDetectCookieSuppor…
UNOCHA
https://unvoiosctxwi.unvienna.org/OIOSIDWDR/
Email investigationsoios@un.org
UNODC
+1 (917) 367-8910 or email speakup@un.org
UNOPS
https://www.unops.org/about/governance/accountability/iaig/report-wrong…
UNWOMEN
https://oios.un.org/page?slug=report-wrong-doing
http://www.unwomen.org/en/about-us/accountability/investigations#hotline
WFP
Email: hotline@wfp.org
Hotline: +39 06 6513 3663
Inspector General, OEDI, World Food Programme
Via Cesare Giulio Viola 68/70, 00148 Rome
Tel: (3906) 6513 2060
Fax: (3906) 6513 2063
WHO
Email: ethicsoffice@who.int
Email: integrity@expolink.co.uk
https://wrs.expolink.co.uk/integrity
Hotline: www.who.int/about/ethics/en/
*Staff from offices not included in the table can use the 24/7 Helpline and OIOS.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/22074-zero-tolerance-sexual-harassment-and-abuse




Date: 29 August 2017
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesman for the Secretary-General on Myanmar
Content: 29 August 2017
The Secretary-General is deeply concerned at the reports of civilians being killed during security operations in Myanmar’s Rakhine State.
This latest round of violence comes after the attacks on Myanmar security forces on 25 August. The Secretary-General, who condemned those attacks, reiterates the importance of addressing the root causes of the violence and the responsibility of the Government of Myanmar to provide security and assistance to those in need.
The Secretary-General fully supports the recommendations of the report by Kofi Annan and urges the Government to effectively implement them.
Recognizing that Bangladesh has hosted generously refugees from Myanmar for decades, the Secretary-General appeals for the authorities to continue to allow the Rohingya fleeing violence to seek safety in Bangladesh. Many of those fleeing are women and children, some of whom are wounded. He calls for humanitarian agencies to be granted unfettered and free access to affected communities in need of assistance and protection.  The United Nations stands ready to provide all necessary support to both Myanmar and Bangladesh in that regard.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
Jerusalem, 28 August 2017
Download PDF version.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21770-statement-attributable-spokesman-secretary-general-myanmar




Date: 25 August 2017
Title: Statement of UN Resident Coordinator in Myanmar Renata Lok-Dessallien on attacks in Rakhine State
Content: 25 August 2017
We condemn in the strongest terms the series of coordinated attacks carried out against the Myanmar security forces in northern areas of Rakhine State in the early hours on 25 August. We regret the loss of life, express deepest condolences to the bereaved families and wish a speedy recovery to the injured.
We call on all parties to refrain from violence, protect civilians, restore law and order and resolve issues through dialogue and peaceful means.
The grave events confirm the significance of government's commitment to implement the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State for the betterment of all communities.
We are deeply concerned about the security situation in Rakhine State. We continue to follow the situation and remain in contact with authorities.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/22076-statement-un-resident-coordinator-myanmar-renata-lok-dessallien-attacks-rakhine-state




Date: 25 August 2017
Title: UN Statement on the final report of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State
Content: 25 August 2017
Statement by the Office of the UN Resident & Humanitarian Coordinator, Myanmar, on the final report of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State:

We welcome the release of the comprehensive report of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State and take note of its emphasis on issues related to identity and citizenship, particularly its call for freedom of movement for all people, as well as the need to address the root causes of violence and reduce inter-communal tensions.
We look forward to reviewing the report's recommendations further.
In the meantime, we would like to acknowledge again the significance of the Government’s establishment of this Commission and the importance of its mandate to analyze the situation of all communities in Rakhine State and draft recommendations toward conflict prevention, reconciliation, institution building and long-term development, and humanitarian services.
The UN stands ready to support the Government’s implementation of the recommendations for the betterment of all communities in Rakhine State.
×××××
Download PDF version

No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21766-un-statement-final-report-advisory-commission-rakhine-state




Date: 27 June 2017
Title: Message of United Nations Secretary-General, António Guterres, on the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking
Content: 27 June 2017
Last year, at the UN General Assembly Special Session on the World Drug Problem (UNGASS), the international community took steps to mobilize a multifaceted, collective response to the full range of issues related to drug abuse and illicit trafficking. Governments came together to chart a new path forward that is more effective and humane, and leaves no one behind.
UNGASS was a ground-breaking moment that provided a detailed and forward-looking blueprint for action. Together, we must honour the unanimous commitments made to reduce drug abuse, illicit trafficking and the harm that drugs cause, and to ensure that our approach promotes equality, human rights, sustainable development, and greater peace and security.
I know from personal experience how an approach based on prevention and treatment can yield positive results. As Prime Minister of Portugal, I used the flexibility afforded by the three international drug control conventions to introduce non-criminal responses to the possession of drugs for personal use. Greater resources were allocated to prevention, treatment, and social reintegration programs, including harm reduction measures.
Portugal now has one of the lowest death rates for drug use in Europe. In 2001, Portugal had the highest rate of HIV amongst injecting drug users in the region; since the introduction of the new policy, this rate, and rates of all sexually transmitted diseases, have decreased dramatically. Overall drug use rates have also fallen.
I am proud of these results and hope this experience will contribute to the discussion and encourage Member States to continue exploring comprehensive and evidence-based solutions.
The UNGASS follow-up process provides us with an institutional framework to learn from each other and share best practices. It is vital that we examine the effectiveness of the War on Drugs approach, and its consequences for human rights.
Despite the risks and challenges inherent in tackling this global problem, I hope and believe we are on the right path, and that together we can implement a coordinated, balanced and comprehensive approach that leads to sustainable solutions.
This would be the best possible way to implement the UNGASS recommendations and to have a positive impact on the lives of millions of people around the world.
Script PDF: Download  here.
More stories at: https://www.unodc.org/unodc/index.html?ref=menutop
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21763-message-united-nations-secretary-general-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-international-day-against-drug




Date: 22 June 2017
Title: UN Statement on Resident Coordinator in Myanmar
Content: 22 June 2017
The UN strongly disagrees with false and inaccurate statements in recent media reports about the UN Resident Coordinator in Myanmar, Renata Lok-Dessallien.
The future elevation of the UN Resident Coordinator post in Myanmar to the level of an Assistant Secretary-General has no links to the current Resident Coordinator, Renata Lok-Dessallien. As stated by the Secretary-General’s Spokesperson on June 13, her performance has been constantly appreciated.
The upgrading of the UN Resident Coordinator post is aimed to further strengthen collaboration between the United Nations and Myanmar. This will not change the mandate of the Resident Coordinator.
Renata Lok-Dessallien will continue to serve as the UN Resident Coordinator in Myanmar until further notice.
No. 6, Natmauk Road, Tamwe Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Phone: (0)1 542911-9, Fax: (0)1 545634,544531
URL: https://myanmar.un.org/en/21762-un-statement-resident-coordinator-myanmar




