Date: 11 October 2023
Title: Veteran Clubs World Championship - Rwanda 2024
Content: 11 October 2023
When it comes to football, Tanzania is an example of consistent growth and perseverance towards building the champions of tomorrow.
A spirit that is reflected by the vibrant Tanzanian Premier League which makes it one of the most successful championships on the continent. The joint winning bid to host the 2027 Africa Cup of Nations together with other international events that will happen in the country is a demonstration of their bold ambition.
Following the cities of Berlin, London, Paris, New York, Dubai, and Lagos, Dar es Salaam was, therefore, an obvious stop of the LEGENDS VISIT RWANDA International tour with Jay-Jay Okocha as the special guest.
The presentation conference which took place at the Dar es Salaam Serena Hotel, was graced by the presence of the Rwandan High Commissioner to Tanzania, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Tanzania, the Chairman of the Union of Tanzania Soccer Veterans, the Chairman of the Tanzanian football federation, the President of the VCWC business club as well as local business managers and major media houses from the country.
Following a welcome address from the VCWC Chairman, Ambassador Fatou Harerimana in her opening remarks renewed the commitment of the government of Rwanda towards ensuring that the VCWC inaugural edition in 2024 is a brilliant success.
The country has world-class facilities that have recently hosted several international events and the brand new Amahoro stadium will equally be ready next year to host the Legends' tournament.
Mr. RWABUKUMBA, President of the VCWC Business Club in his statement said: "The VCWC Business Club is a unique opportunity to ensure that this outstanding event bringing 150 football Legends to Rwanda, leaves a sustainable legacy at the regional (East Africa) and global level."
A presentation was then made by the technical team regarding the dierent VCWC communities which involve:
1- BUSINESS CLUB: This brings together investors, entrepreneurs, experts, and development partners willing to collaborate with Legends to address socio-economic opportunities.
2- MEDIA CLUB: This includes Journalists, Content producers, content creators, filmmakers and more. All are willing to share the story of the continuous impact of the Legends.
3- YOUTH CLUB: A network of existing youth communities with innovators, entrepreneurs, and advocates who are actively working to make a dierence in their communities.
4- AMATEUR CLUB: These are corporate football teams that will take part in an amateur tournament on the sidelines of the Legends tournament aimed at promoting a healthy lifestyle in the workplace and inter-organizational networking.
All the aforementioned opportunities are geared towards transforming the incredible audience that will be generated from such an event into tangible impact at the social, economic, cultural and environmental levels.
In his closing remarks Mr. Milišić said: "It is a wonderful project that will attract a global audience. We must therefore work hand in gloves to build sustainable partnerships with the Legends towards advancing the global goals."

Next Stop: Johannesburg in South Africa on the 13th of October 2023.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/249133-veteran-clubs-world-championship-rwanda-2024




Date: 15 February 2023
Title: WFP increases food assistance for refugees in Rwanda
Content: 15 February 2023
Kigali: The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has increased food assistance for refugees in all five camps across Rwanda by 43 percent to help them meet their basic needs following the increase in food and energy prices globally. From February 2023, refugees classified as highly vulnerable, will receive RWF 10,000 per person per month (increased from RWF 7,000). Refugees classified as moderately vulnerable, will receive RWF 5,000 per person per month (instead of RWF 3,500). These are reduced rations from the adjusted full entitlements of RWF 13,600 for highly and RWF 7,800 for moderately vulnerable refugees due to WFP’s funding shortfalls.
WFP’s monthly price monitoring indicates that the average cost of the food basket in December 2022 was 77 percent higher compared to December 2021. “The global rising costs of food, energy, and transportation is putting food out of reach for thousands of families and threatening to push them further into hunger,” says Ahmareen Karim, WFP’s acting Country Director in Rwanda. “This increased support will give refugees more choice to address their essential needs in local markets, while also helping to boost local economies.”
In May 2021, WFP introduced needs-based assistance for refugees in Rwanda – ensuring that limited resources are prioritized for the most vulnerable refugees. Currently, out of 127,000 refugees hosted in Rwanda, WFP provides food and nutrition assistance to 113,650 camp-based refugees, with 87 percent of all refugees classified as highly vulnerable and 6 percent as moderately vulnerable. Infants and young children, pregnant and breastfeeding women, people living with HIV and tuberculosis receive additional supplemental nutrition assistance to prevent and treat malnutrition. School children from refugee communities and children from host communities who attend the same schools also receive daily nutritious porridge or hot meals.
WFP works closely with the Government of Rwanda, UN partners and civil society organizations to contribute to the food security of vulnerable population groups, such as refugees and asylum seekers, despite the significant food price increases across the country.

UNHCR’s representative Aissatou Masseck Dieng-Ndiaye comments: “The increase of the value of food assistance for refugees comes at a critical time. Inflation, including in food prices, is making it harder for refugees to meet their basic needs. By working closely with WFP to identify the most vulnerable refugee populations, UNHCR hopes that this latest change will prevent refugees resorting to negative coping strategies and help them better support their families.”
WFP is currently supporting the recent influx of newly displaced persons from the Democratic Republic of Congo with life-saving in-kind food assistance in the Nkamira transit camp.
“The Government of Rwanda will continue to work with partners and stakeholders to ensure the well-being and full protection of hosted refugees and asylum seekers. The Government will also continue to ensure that all its pledges and commitment for refugee protection and inclusion are fulfilled in accordance with international conventions and national laws,” says Philippe Habinshuti, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry in charge of Emergency Management.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Africa, @AhmareenKarim, @UNRwanda, @RwandaEmergency, @RefugeesRwanda
For more information please contact:
●      WFP Kigali: Sarah Colbourne,
Tel. +250 587611, Email: sarah.colbourne@wfp.org
●      WFP Nairobi: Alessandro Abbonizio,
Tel. +254 723001639, Email: alessandro.abbonizio@wfp.org
●      MINEMA: Claude Twishime,
Email: ctwishime@minema.gov.rw
●      UNHCR: Lilly Carlisle,
Email: carlisle@unhcr.org
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/219427-wfp-increases-food-assistance-refugees-rwanda




Date: 20 January 2023
Title: WFP welcomes funding from the United States to support refugees in Rwanda
Content: 20 January 2023
KIGALI – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) has welcomed a contribution of US$7.2 million from the United States (through USAID’s Bureau for Humanitarian Assistance) to provide life-saving food assistance in the form of cash transfers and treatment for malnutrition including social and behavioral change initiatives for 113,650 refugees living in all five camps in Rwanda.
“This contribution from the United States comes at a time when we need it most. With the recent arrival of over 100 new refugees every day from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and rising costs of food, energy and transport, refugees are now, more than ever in need of assistance to enable them to progress towards self-reliance,” says Ahmareen Karim, WFP’s Acting Country Director in Rwanda.  
 
WFP uses cash transfers to empower people with choice to address their essential needs in local markets, while also helping to boost local economies. 
 
Despite this generous funding, WFP is still not able to provide full rations to meet the minimum food requirements for refugees in Rwanda. WFP, in partnership with UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, introduced a needs-based targeting approach in May 2021 – a system under which refugees are given food rations according to their levels of vulnerability.  
 
Due to funding shortfalls, the most vulnerable refugees currently receive 92 percent of a full ration and those deemed moderately vulnerable receive 46 percent of a full ration. This ensures that the most vulnerable refugees are prioritized for food assistance while the least vulnerable refugees are supported to become more self-reliant.  
 
This contribution is in addition to US$9.5 million received from the United States in 2022 in support of WFP’s refugee operations in Rwanda. 
 
#                #            # 
 
The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter @WFP_Africa
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/216054-wfp-welcomes-funding-united-states-support-refugees-rwanda




Date: 08 December 2022
Title: Government and One UN Rwanda assess implementation and impact of joint work on Rwanda’s development agenda
Content: 08 December 2022
08 December 2022
The Government of Rwanda, and the United Nations (UN) in Rwanda, today hosted a Joint Steering Committee meeting to assess the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF), which is geared towards realizing the country’s development targets.
The meeting was hosted by the chair, Dr. Uzziel Ndagijimana, the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning and co-chair, Mr. Ozonnia Ojielo, the UN Resident Coordinator to Rwanda. They were joined by colleagues in Government, the UN, diplomatic corps, development partners, CSOs and private sector representatives.
The Joint Steering Committee aims to provide strategic direction and oversight of the UNSDCF for its alignment, with national, regional and international development processes, mechanisms and goals such as Vision 2050, National Strategy for Transformation; and links with other processes, such as the Voluntary National Reviews and the Universal Periodic Review. The platform also serves as an accountability mechanism of the Cooperation Framework in the delivery of a collective system support to the 2030 Agenda.
The UNSDCF is a seven-year plan that outlines how the UN supports Rwanda’s development agenda from 2018 to 2024. It is delivered by the United Nations system, with all agencies working together under the umbrella of ‘One UN’. It is mapped on to the three Strategic Priority Areas that constitute the Government’s National Strategy for Transformation (NST1).
Through 14 joint programmes on cross border trade and social cohesion, social protection, health care, youth, HIV, gender equality and empowerment of rural women, nutrition, COVID-19 response and recovery, climate resilience, data, Integrated National Financing Framework, food security, disability, diversity and inclusion and sustainable cities, thousands of communities are reached, systems are strengthened, capacities are built and people’s lives are transformed.
Minister Ndagijimana acknowledged the many years of joint work between Rwanda and the UN, and emphasized the importance of strong collaboration and partnership, which is crucial to ensuring that the country builds back better from COVID-19 pandemic, and stays on track to the ambitious goals set out by Vision 2050 and the National Strategy for Transformation.
“Today we have an opportunity to review, assess and re-commit ourselves to act together to support Rwanda’s development. As we continue to deal with spill-over effects of COVID-19, and other global challenges such as inflation and food security, we are committed more than ever to achieve NST1 targets and we will count on UN’s collaboration in this Journey, “Minister Ndagijimana said.
Mr. Ozonnia commended the GoR for its strong leadership throughout the response and recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and reiterated the UN’s commitment to working closely on Rwanda’s continued development.
“I congratulate the Government of Rwanda (GoR) for its strong leadership and commitment to supporting Rwanda’s socio-economic recovery and development efforts and for our strong partnership in our development work. The UN in Rwanda takes pride in being a partner of choice for the Government and the people of Rwanda as the country continues to build on its remarkable success story and ensuring the well-being of its people embedded in the spirit of “Leaving no one behind”. Mr. Ozonnia said.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/210697-government-and-one-un-rwanda-assess-implementation-and-impact-joint-work-rwanda%E2%80%99s




Date: 08 December 2022
Title: United Nations Rwanda and Veteran Clubs World Championship (VCWC), united for the success of VCWC Rwanda2024.
Content: 08 December 2022
United Nations Rwanda and the Veteran Clubs World Championship (VCWC) have signed an accord at Kigali Serena Hotel between Ozonnia OJIELO, UN Resident Coordinator and Fred SIEWE,Chairman of the VCWC for the preparation, organisation and sustainable impact of VCWC Rwanda2024.
VCWC Rwanda2024 is an event that will bring together over 150 football legends to Rwanda, to take part in a tournament and series of forums aimed at using the influence of sports as a driver of the UN Sustainable Development Agenda 2030.
On the heels of the LEGENDS IN RWANDA international kickoff that will take place in Doha (Qatar) on the 16th of December 2022, VCWC will undertake a series of national and international events in 12 cities around the world with the football legends culminating in the big jamboree in Kigali. This tour will engage with key stakeholders from the Governments, UN, Development Partners,Private Sectors, and civil society Organisations to ensure active and effective participation at the 2024 rendezvous.

INFONLINE/UNRCO
0786976708
Immy.mulekatete@undp.org
https://rwanda.un.org/


INFONLINE/VCWC
(+250) 790336142
info@vcwc2024.com
www.vcwc2024.com
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/210698-united-nations-rwanda-and-veteran-clubs-world-championship-vcwc-united-success-vcwc




Date: 20 October 2022
Title: Rwanda marks 60th anniversary of membership in the United Nations
Content: 20 October 2022
Kigali, 20 October 2022 – The Government of Rwanda and the United Nations (UN) will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the country's membership in the UN under the theme, “Partnering for a Better, Shared Future for All”. The official celebration will take place on Monday, 24 October 2022 in Kigali to mark the anniversary, and fruit trees will be planted during Umuganda in Huye and Musanze Districts, and in Kigali, on Saturday, 29 October 2022. These events serve as an opportunity to reflect on the success stories and lessons learned from the partnership between Rwanda and the UN.
Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Vincent Biruta said:
“We commend the UN for its support to our country and for spearheading multilateralism efforts and global cooperation. Rwanda remains committed to our partnership in addressing common challenges in diverse areas including socio-economic development, gender equality, peacekeeping, refugees’ rights protection, climate change, and much more. The world needs consistent and effective collaboration among countries, and Rwanda will always play its role.”

The UN Resident Coordinator Ozonnia Matthew Ojielo said:
“The UN extends its sincere appreciation to the Government and the people of Rwanda for the support and continued commitment to work closely for the benefit of the people of this country – leaving no one behind. We reaffirm the UN's collective commitment and pledge cooperation and support in all forms to address shared objectives grounded on the UN Charter.”
Rwanda is one of the biggest contributors to the UN peacekeeping missions with over 5,000 military and police personnel deployed in different countries. Rwanda is also among the African countries that achieved Millennium Development Goals and is on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
— END —
Note to the Editors:

Rwanda was admitted as a member to the UN on 18 September 1962, following the adoption of security council resolution A_RES_1748(XVII) in July of the same year. Since then, the Government of Rwanda has partnered with the UN across a broad range of thematic areas in order to pursue its sustainable development goals: from agriculture to youth employment, numerous activities have contributed to the social, political, and economic transformation of Rwanda in the last 60 years.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/204025-rwanda-marks-60th-anniversary-membership-united-nations




Date: 22 July 2022
Title: Breakthrough agreement in Istanbul
Content: 22 July 2022
Today in Istanbul, senior representatives from Ukraine, the Russian Federation, and Türkiye gathered to sign an initiative which establishes a mechanism for the safe transportation of grain, related foodstuffs and fertilizer from Ukrainian ports to global markets
For months, the Secretary-General has been underlining the importance of facilitating full access to world markets for Ukraine’s food stocks and Russian food and fertilizers.
He travelled to Moscow and Kyiv in April to propose a plan to reach that objective.
Ukraine and the Russian Federation are breadbaskets of the world, producing almost one-third of the world’s wheat and barley and half of its sunflower oil.  Russia is also a top global exporter of fertilizers and the raw materials for its production.
Today in Istanbul, senior representatives from Ukraine, the Russian Federation, and Türkiye gathered to sign an initiative which establishes a mechanism for the safe transportation of grain, related foodstuffs and fertilizer from Ukrainian ports to global markets.
The United Nations, represented by the Secretary-General, signed the Initiative as a witness. The purpose of the Initiative is to contribute to the prevention of global hunger, to reduce and address global food insecurity, and to ensure the safety and security of merchant ships entering or departing Ukrainian ports.
In the Initiative, the Parties recognized the role of the Secretary-General of the United Nations in securing the discussions for this Initiative. They went on to request his further assistance in its implementation, in the furtherance of the humanitarian mission of the United Nations, subject to its authorities and mandates.
To facilitate the implementation of their Initiative, the Parties agreed to set up a Joint Coordination Centre (JCC) in Istanbul, under the auspices of the United Nations, comprised of representatives of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, Türkiye and the United Nations.
The JCC will enable the safe transportation, by merchant ships, of commercial foodstuffs and fertilizer from three key Ukrainian ports in the Black Sea: Odesa, Chornomorsk, Yuzhny.
The new Centre will:
The new Centre will not:
An agreement was also reached with the Russian Federation on the scope of engagement of the United Nations to facilitate the unimpeded exports to world markets of Russian food and fertilizer – including the raw materials required to produce fertilizers.  This agreement is based on the principle that measures imposed on the Russian Federation do not apply to these products.
Simultaneously, the Russian Federation has committed to facilitate the unimpeded export of food, sunflower oil and fertilizers from Ukrainian controlled Black Sea ports.
Agreements to facilitate unrestricted access to exports of Ukraine food from the Black Sea along with exports of food and fertilizer from the Russian Federation matter on many levels.
To calm commodity markets, lower prices and provide critical relief to the most vulnerable people and countries getting hammered by an unprecedented cost-of-living crisis.
To the numerous countries in the developing world that rely on wheat and other grain imports to feed their people.
And to assist in reversing the turmoil in the global fertilizer market that is now threatening next season’s crops – including rice, the most widely consumed staple in the world.
The comprehensive agreements secured today in Istanbul are a big step forward in tackling the global food crisis now gripping the world.
They will provide much-needed relief to the most vulnerable people and countries.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/191911-breakthrough-agreement-istanbul




Date: 14 December 2021
Title: Sweden and UN Rwanda partnership
Content: 14 December 2021
Sweden and UN Rwanda partnership to support the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework
Kigali, 8th December 2021: The Government of Sweden represented by the Ambassador of Sweden to Rwanda, and the United Nations in Rwanda represented by the UN Resident Coordinator are signing an amendment to its agreement of cooperation that will further enhance the UN capacity to implement its United Nations Development Assistance Plan (UNDAP II 2018 – 2023), contributing to the Government’s  National Strategy for Transformation (NST 1: 2017-2024) and the Sustainable Development Goals.
Sweden is contributing an additional 4 million USD bringing its total contribution to 10,7 million USD over the period 2019-2024. The funding will be channeled through the UN Rwanda Sustainable Development Fund (SDF) and allocated by the UN Country Team to selected joint programmes, including in the areas of inclusive economic growth, climate resilience, gender equality, human rights and justice and good governance. Globally, Sweden is also one of the largest core contributors of UN agencies and a champion of UN reforms.
“This additional contribution to the Sustainable Development Fund is a sign of Sweden’s unwavering commitment to both multilateralism and sustainable development in Rwanda. Through this strengthened partnership, the UN and Sweden will jointly support Rwandan partners in their efforts to reach the poorest people and ensuring no-one is left behind. Supporting Rwanda’s commitment to an inclusive and green recovery is key”, says H.E. Ambassador of Sweden, Johanna Teague.
“This partnership will boost our collective efforts to achieve desired UN reforms to engineer inclusive and Sustainable Development, carrying out result based activities and Leaving no One Behind, for the betterment of all Rwandans” said Fodé Ndiaye, UN Resident Coordinator
He added “The United Nations in Rwanda highly thank the Government and people of Sweden through SIDA for not only this partnership but also a strong and effective collaboration the Agency has with the One UN since 2008. Your renewed commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals is paramount”
The UN and Sweden underlined the desire to join efforts to support the Government of Rwanda to successfully implement the NST 1 based on the country’s vision 2050, taking into account the Agendas 2030 and 2063.

For more info:
Maureen Twahirwa
Communications and Advocacy Officer
United Nations Resident Coordinator Office
maureen.twahirwa@un.org
+250788301153

URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/165121-sweden-and-un-rwanda-partnership




Date: 14 December 2021
Title: Partnership between Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation and UN Rwanda
Content: 14 December 2021
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation and UN Rwanda signs the funding MoU for the Joint Project on Nutrition
The Government of Switzerland through the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) represented by the Deputy Head of Cooperation, and the United Nations in Rwanda represented by the UN Resident Coordinator, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the implementation of the third phase of the Joint Nutrition Project. The project aims at effectively fighting stunting in Rwanda. The signed MoU will be implemented by four Participating UN Agencies namely the World Food Programme (WFP), Food Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), and World Health Organization (WHO).
Kigali, 9th December 2021 - Through the UN Rwanda Sustainable Development Fund (SDF), the Joint Nutrition Project to which SDC will financially contribute up to 4,950,000 CHF (5,316,863 USD) will strengthen the Government of Rwanda’s capacity in an effective and equity-focused policy formulation, strategic planning, coordination, M&E and domestic funds mobilization. Different sectors including WASH, ECD, health, social protection, education, and agriculture, along with increased participation of private sector and civil society actors for sustained gains will benefit from this support.
The project postulate is that well-equipped service providers working in the targeted sectors provide quality nutrition-related services to communities contributing to the reduction of malnutrition including stunting in children. As a result, empowered communities in targeted districts improve their nutrition situation through creating better access to and consumption of a variety of nutrient-dense foods, early identification, and prevention of cases of malnutrition-decreased risk of infectious and diarrheal diseases through improved hygiene and health practices, and increased resilience against shocks.
“SDC encourages the active participation of men and women in promoting the access to nutrition related services. The experience has shown that women are the main recipients of nutrition related counseling and services as they are the ones who often accompany their children to health centers. Therefore the access to nutritional care will also be insured for men as well as for women, girls and boys from all ages and categories of the population” ensures Peter Lindenmann, Deputy Regional Director
Commenting on this renewed great partnership of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation and the United Nations in Rwanda, the UN Resident Coordinator Fodé Ndiaye commended the continued good collaboration between the two institutions  in striving to achieve all Sustainable Development Goals especially SDG 2 Zero Hunger which cuts across all SDGs.
“The UN values the ongoing strong partnership with the Government of Switzerland both globally and here in Rwanda to accompany the UN reforms and accelerate the implementation of the agenda 2030. This new Memorandum of Understanding will contribute to supporting Rwanda’s continued and impressive development. I am strongly convinced that this partnership will have a clear impact on people’s lives, leaving no One Behind.” said Fodé Ndiaye, UN Resident Coordinator
Thanks to the Government of Rwanda since 2000, there have been significant declines in stunting prevalence among children under five. From as high as 52% in 2005, stunting prevalence has dropped by 19 percentage points to 33% in the last Rwanda Demographic Health Survey (RDHS) survey in 2019-2020. Nonetheless, stunting remains high and above the public health threshold of severity (30%) according to WHO classification, still far from the national target at 19% to be reached by 2024. The efforts of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation and the United Nations in Rwanda are undoubtedly instrumental to moving a needle towards the eradication of stunting and malnutrition in Rwanda.
About the United Nations in Rwanda
The United Nations system in Rwanda consists of 22 UN agencies, programmes, and funds, both resident and non-resident.
Since the Genocide against the Tutsi in 1994, the UN system has been a fundamental partner in the reconstruction of Rwanda. Since 2008, they have been delivering as one: ‘One UN’. This means one leader – the UN Resident Coordinator; one budget; one programme – the five-year Development Assistance Plan (UNDAP II); and one voice. ‘One UN’ capitalizes on the strengths and comparative advantages of the different UN agencies in the UN system and calls for coordinated endeavors for achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to Transform Our World that was set out in Agenda 2030.
Between 2018-2023, the One UN Rwanda has budgeted around US$631 million to assist the country in its development.
About the SDC
The Great Lakes region, comprised of Rwanda, Burundi and the eastern DRC, is a priority region for the South Cooperation Department of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC). In the Great Lakes region, Switzerland works to further peace and stability, reduce poverty and protect civilians. It helps to strengthen democratic processes, respect for human rights, social cohesion and employment, especially for young people. In line with Switzerland’s diplomatic and political efforts, these activities aim at strengthening the capacities of local people to overcome crises and challenges.
####END####
For more info:
Maureen Twahirwa
Communications and Advocacy Officer
United Nations Resident Coordinator Office
maureen.twahirwa@un.org
+250788301153
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/165126-partnership-between-swiss-agency-development-and-cooperation-and-un-rwanda




Date: 09 December 2021
Title: Policy Forum on Shock-Responsive Social Protection in Rwanda to Strengthen Response to Climate-Related Shocks
Content: 09 December 2021
Kigali, 9 December 2021 – Today the Government of Rwanda, through the Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC) in partnership with United Nations in Rwanda through the World Food Programme (WFP), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) are holding a policy forum on shock-responsive social protection, in close collaboration with other Ministries and partners.
This is the first forum in Rwanda bringing together the sectors of social protection, disaster management and other relevant sectors to discuss opportunities for more climate-sensitive and shock-responsive social protection in Rwanda. This comes at a time when around the world, social protection has been identified as crucial in mitigating disasters and shocks such as the COVID-19 pandemic.
Rwanda is affected by frequent and unpredictable climate hazards such as heavy rains and long dry spells.  These lead to localized shocks such as flooding, landslides and drought. During 2015–17 alone, Rwanda’s Ministry of Emergency Management (MINEMA) recorded 1,800 localized small-scale disasters.  These small but frequent disasters undermine the resilience of communities, destroy livelihoods and jeopardize household food and nutrition security.  As climate change is predicted to accelerate over the coming decades, shocks are also expected to affect more people.
Rwanda’s social protection system has expanded significantly in the last two decades with the institution of policy frameworks and programmes to cushion households against poverty and improve their wellbeing. However, enhancing the linkages between the national social protection and disaster management systems has become a priority for the Government of Rwanda to help mitigate the consequences of shocks from climate change and other unexpected events, such as COVID-19.
Today’s forum will discuss entry points for enhancing the Government’s Vision Umurenge Programme and other social protection programmes’ contribution to resilience and opportunities to enhance emergency preparedness, response, and recovery actions.  The forum also aims to identify possible mechanisms to finance shock-responsive social protection.
“The Government has put in place institutions, programmes and policies to mitigate, prevent, and quickly respond to shocks.  These include the Vision Umurenge Programme (VUP) to protect poor households against livelihood shocks, as well as community-based health insurance, Ejo HEZA, and agriculture insurance,” said Hon. Ingabire Assumpta, Minister of State in charge of Social Affairs, MINALOC.  “We will continue to strengthen mechanisms to prevent, detect, and respond to disasters and shocks, to build institutional capacity for poverty and vulnerability analysis and targeting, and strengthen the capacity of local governments to design and implement disaster risk reduction interventions,” Hon. Ingabire Assumpta added.
The forum builds on an assessment conducted by WFP in 2020, on behalf of Rwanda’s Social Protection Sector Working Group, which focused on opportunities for more climate-sensitive and shock-responsive social protection to minimize the effects shocks have on poverty in Rwanda.
“Social protection plays a central role in managing climate risks – this can include providing support to households during and after climatic shocks as well as building long-term community resilience through better assets and skills to adapt to climate change,” said Edith Heines, WFP Representative and Country Director.  “There is not one blueprint for what shock-responsive social protection means, so it is essential to have this dialogue and agree on priority approaches and investments for the unique Rwandan context. What is certain is that one sector alone cannot deal with the risks and costs posed by disasters,” Edith Heines further added.
The forum is organized in the context of the UN Joint Programme on Social Protection launched in 2020 to contribute to the Government’s current needs and vision for the social protection sector. The joint programme seeks to contribute to achieving the ambitious SDG targets of eliminating poverty and hunger, significantly reducing inequalities while working in a climate-smart manner.

END.
For media inquiries, please contact:
Emily Fredenberg, WFP Rwanda
Email: emilyjean.fredenberg@wfp.org

Resident Coordinator's Office (RCO):
Maureen Twahirwa,
Email: maureen.twahirwa@un.org
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/164203-policy-forum-shock-responsive-social-protection-rwanda-strengthen-response-climate-related




Date: 21 June 2021
Title: Ange Kagame shares Parenting Tips on Developing Children’s Brain through Play
Content: 21 June 2021
Kigali, 21 June 2021 - Ange Kagame joins the ‘Parenting Month’ campaign in Rwanda by sharing tips for parents on how to boost their babies’ brain development through play. A month-long campaign was launched on 1 June 2021, by the Ministry of Gender and Family Promotion, National Child Development Agency, UNICEF, and other partners to promote positive parenting.

In the video, Ange Kagame talks about how a baby’s brain develops most in the first 1,000 days at a pace never repeated again. She also highlights the role of both parents, male and female in the overall development of their baby.
In the earliest years of life, a child’s brain develops at an astounding speed of more than 1 million new neural connections every second. This period offers a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to shape a child’s ability to learn, grow, form healthy relationships, and contribute fully to society in adulthood.
Parents are the key providers of health, nutrition, stimulation, opportunities for early learning, and protection that babies need for healthy brain development. Another area where parents can contribute significantly to a child’s development is by playing with the baby. This helps babies learn and build crucial life skills – from problem-solving to expressing ideas – and strengthening the bond between child and parent.
Parenting is one of the most challenging jobs in the world and now COVID-19 has placed even more pressure on parents and caregivers to support their children’s learning and development, keep their households functioning, and look after their families’ wellbeing.
The video explains the various techniques such as ‘serve and return’ that parents can use to strengthen their bond with their babies while ensuring their holistic development.
Link to the video can be found here: https://youtu.be/EKmfp8L_chA
Additional parenting resources can be found at www.unicef.org/parenting/
About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work for children, visit www.unicef.org.
Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/132446-ange-kagame-shares-parenting-tips-developing-children%E2%80%99s-brain-through-play




Date: 10 May 2021
Title: European Union provides €500,000 to WFP for COVID-19 recovery in Rwanda
Content: 10 May 2021
KIGALI - The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) welcomes €500,000 from the European Union (EU) to provide technical support to Rwanda’s COVID-19 recovery efforts.
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) welcomes €500,000 from the European Union (EU) to provide technical support to Rwanda’s COVID-19 recovery efforts.
With this contribution, WFP will support Government efforts to ensure that social protection is expanded to the most vulnerable and food insecure Rwandans and responds to the unique challenges presented by the pandemic.
The new funding will also support evidence generation on food security, markets, and supply chains to inform the Government and partners in their investments in COVID-19 recovery.
“To ensure an effective COVID-19 recovery, it is vital for Rwanda to harness strategic technical expertise that will strengthen its social protection and food security systems to efficiently support national economic recovery," said Ambassador Nicola Bellomo, Head of the EU Delegation in Rwanda.
WFP has widely recognized expertise in food security analysis and a close partnership with the Government in social protection. WFP will work to assist the Local Administrative Entities Development Agency on national systems for social protection targeting, monitoring and evaluation and feedback to support the response to vulnerabilities associated with COVID-19.
“The Government’s response to mobilizing the social protection system as a key platform for the COVID-19 response has been impressive to date,” said Edith Heines, WFP Rwanda Representative and Country Director.
“With this generous support, WFP will help the Government make the national social protection system even more shock-responsive, building on the lessons learned from the pandemic.”
This support is a contribution to the ongoing food security and vulnerability analysis as well as to food market and supply chain monitoring and their recovery from COVID-19.
This contribution is 100 percent funded by the EU under the Sector Reform Contract to enhance the agriculture sector's sustainable use of land and water resources, value creation and contribution to nutrition security through its budget support action in response to the COVID-19 crisis.
#                           #                            #

Follow us on Twitter: @wfp_africa, @EdithHeinesWFP, @EUinRW, @nicolabellomo

For more information please contact:
Emily Fredenberg, WFP/Kigali, Email: emilyjean.fredenberg@wfp.org, Mobile: +250 789 451 347
Amparo Gonzalez Diez, Delegation of the European Union to Rwanda, Email: Amparo.GONZALEZ-DIEZ@eeas.europa.eu  Mobile: +250788198117
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/126568-european-union-provides-%E2%82%AC500000-wfp-covid-19-recovery-rwanda




Date: 26 March 2021
Title: WFP Welcomes CAD 1 Million from Canada to support food & nutrition assistance for refugees in Rwanda
Content: 26 March 2021
KIGALI - The United Nations World Food Programme today welcomed a contribution of CAD 1 million (US$ 794,000) from the Government and people of Canada to provide humanitarian food and nutrition assistance to 135,000 Congolese and Burundian refugees in camps in Rwanda.
This contribution comes at a critical time when WFP general food assistance for refugees has been reduced by a staggering 60 percent from March 2021 because of critical funding shortfalls.
"This generous contribution from the Government and people of Canada will help prevent an even deeper reduction in food assistance for refugees in the coming months,” said Edith Heines, WFP Rwanda Representative and Country Director.
WFP food assistance for refugees in Rwanda is provided as cash-based transfers. This enables women and men in camps to buy the food that best meets their family’s needs, maximizing their choice and dietary diversity. A 2018 WFP study found that providing cash also empowered refugee women, as they felt having cash assistance increased their sense of dignity and self-respect.
This contribution will allow WFP to maintain full rations of targeted nutrition support for 51,000 refugees identified as particularly vulnerable, such as children under the age of two, schoolchildren and pregnant and nursing mothers, as well as people living with HIV and tuberculosis patients under treatment.
Despite this generous contribution, WFP still requires an additional US$9.3 million to reinstate full rations for the rest of 2021. If additional funding is not received in the coming months, deeper ration reductions will be necessary.
========================================================================================
The United Nations World Food Programme is the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate.  We are the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability, and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters, and the impact of climate change.
Follow us on Twitter: @wfp_africa, @EdithHeinesWFP
For more information please contact:
Emily Fredenberg, WFP/Kigali, Email: emilyjean.fredenberg@wfp.org, Mobile: +250 789 451 347
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/123216-wfp-welcomes-cad-1-million-canada-support-food-nutrition-assistance-refugees-rwanda




Date: 03 March 2021
Title: Next-generation Regional Collaborative Platform meeting kicks off for first time with regional UN entities in Africa
Content: 03 March 2021
3 March 2021
BRAZZAVILLE – Africa’s regional know-how, assets, and policy expertise will be more systematically channeled to the Resident Coordinators and United Nations Country Teams (UNCTs) across the continent as they help countries ensure an inclusive and sustainable transition out of the COVID-19 crisis, UN Deputy Secretary-General and Chair of the UN Sustainable Development Group Amina J. Mohammed stressed as she joined the first annual meeting of the new Regional Collaborative Platform on 2 March 2021.
“Today marks the start of the next-generation collaboration approach for the regional UN entities to support African countries to respond and recover better from the COVID-19 pandemic and reignite the Decade of Action for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is aligned with the Africa Union Agenda 2063,” Ms. Mohammed said.
The United Nations has been making progress on its sweeping reforms to strengthen its support to countries, leveraging its capacities at all levels. The new Regional Collaborative Platform has responded to the growing need for enhanced UN coordination and regional collaboration in the face of the pandemic and implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. It brings together UN regional expertise, capacity and data to provide analytical, policy, and operational support to countries.
Yesterday’s discussion, attended by regional representatives from the Africa UN development system, focused on high-priority issues for the African continent to recover better from the pandemic and move toward the Sustainable Development Goals. These included accelerating the implementation of the continental free trade agreement; investing in youth and women’s empowerment to help countries reap the benefit of their demographic dividends; advancing home-grown sustainable and scalable technologies and digital solutions; building climate and disaster resilience, and continuing to support the African Union’s “Silencing the Guns” initiative.
Across the continent, Resident Coordinators and UNCTs are supporting countries in their access to COVAX vaccines and their socioeconomic response plans. In addition to the pandemic recovery, UN entities will work together to support sustainable development efforts in the Sahel, the Lake Chad Basin and the Horn of Africa, and address the resurgence of Ebola, and climate crises with severe damage caused by deadly droughts, cyclones and locust outbreaks.
“We are still in a recovery phase for the continent. We need additional resources. Our low- and middle-income countries, as well as small island states, have lost a lot of their resources. They need more fiscal space. They need more revenues. They need additional liquidity to ensure we build forward better,” said Under-Secretary-General Vera Songwe, Executive Secretary of the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA).
Although it was a transitional year, the regional UN entities demonstrated evidence of enhanced system-wide collaboration at the regional level. For example, last year, all of them joined forces to launch the Knowledge Management Hub on COVID-19 and shared a business continuity plan with governments to support their e-governance, e-justice and e-commerce for livelihoods, while the Africa e-education strategy was introduced to Resident Coordinators to provide emergency education to more than 100 million African children out of school.
“The African region is at a strategic juncture with COVID-19 recovery programmes and investments that we are making to enhance trade. All our efforts will yield desired results only if Africa’s people – our most important resource – feel productive, if they feel valued, if they feel safe, and if they feel secure,” said Assistant Secretary-General Ahunna Eziakonwa, Director of the Regional Bureau for Africa at the UN Development Programme (UNDP).
The new platform will engage with the African Union in April and accelerate its effort to deliver on its promise with an impact-oriented focus on implementations.
The Regional Collaborative Platform is chaired by the UN Deputy Secretary-General with two Vice-Chairs: Ms. Songwe and Ms. Eziakonwa. Its joint secretariat is comprised of UNECA, UNDP and the UN Development Coordination Office (DCO).
###
Media contacts
Hiroyuki Saito, Regional Communications Officer
Regional Office for Africa, UN Development Coordination Office
saitoh@un.org
Maleele Choongo
Regional Bureau for Africa, UN Development Programme
Maleele.choongo@undp.org

URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/114483-next-generation-regional-collaborative-platform-meeting-kicks-first-time-regional-un




Date: 27 January 2021
Title: NEW ZEALAND CONTRIBUTES NZD 6.8 MILLION TO FACILITATE MARKET LINKAGES FOR SMALLHOLDER FARMERS IN RWANDA
Content: 27 January 2021
Kigali, 27 January 2021 – The Farm to Market Alliance (FtMA) proudly welcomes the Government of New Zealand as a new partner with its generous multi-year commitment of NZD 6,800,000 million to support smallholder farmers across Africa, with NZD 4,200,000 committed to Rwanda from 2020-2023.
The contribution provided through the World Food Programme (WFP) will enable WFP to scale up its support over the next 3 years targeting 200,000 smallholder farmers in rural areas across Rwanda while working to sustainably transform agricultural markets to become more efficient, resilient and profitable.
“New Zealand is proud to partner with the Farm to Market Alliance.  This partnership will support lifting smallholder farmers in Rwanda out of poverty while also transforming regional food systems for longer-term sustainability and food security,” said Olivia Owen, Chargé d’Affaires a.i. of the Embassy of New Zealand to Rwanda.
Through FtMA Rwanda, smallholder farmers are supported with a range of services to promote farming as a business, use of improved inputs and enhancing crop post-harvest management.  Smallholder farmers and their cooperatives are then linked to formal financial services that allows them to scale-up and enhance their production.  Once crops are harvested, cooperatives are linked directly to public and private sector formal off-takers to sell their quality harvests at premium market prices.
“With the support of FtMA, WFP has already been able to support more than 85,000 smallholder farmers in Rwanda since 2016.   This multi-year contribution will allow us to continue with this critical work and scale-up to reach additional farmers,” noted Edith Heines, WFP Rwanda Representative and Country Director.
The announcement of new funding to the Farm to Market Alliance comes at a time when access to food is deteriorating for millions of people as the world continues to grapple with the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic has taught us that we must build more resilient, inclusive, and fair food systems now. At Farm to Market Alliance we are uniquely positioned to bring together both the public and private sectors to not only address the immediate crisis, but to build commercially sustainable food systems beyond the current pandemic. We welcome New Zealand as a new partner to address the urgent issues facing smallholder farmers and food systems in Rwanda and beyond,” says Adrian van der Knaap, FtMA Managing Director.
Africa is recognized as the future breadbasket of the world, but the continent is still a net-importer of food. FtMA is a unique alliance of six organizations with the mission to develop a sustainable and profitable agricultural sector in Africa by supporting smallholder farmers to transition to commercial agriculture.  The Alliance’s global members include The Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), Bayer, Rabobank, Syngenta Crop Protection, Yara and WFP.
The New Zealand Aid Programme’s engagement in Africa contributes to sustainable economic and human development for developing country partners, aligning in-country needs with areas of New Zealand’s expertise. As a small donor, New Zealand targets development efforts and collaborates with innovative partners like the World Food Programme to reduce poverty and contribute to a more secure, equitable and prosperous world.
=================================================================================================================
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­For more information please contact:
Derek Arthur, Farm to Market Alliance
Email: derek.arthur@ftma.org
https://ftma.org/
LinkedIn:  https://www.linkedin.com/company/farmtomarketalliance

Emily Fredenberg, WFP/Kigali
Email: emilyjean.fredenberg@wfp.org,
Tel: +250 789 451 347
Twitter: @wfp_media, @wfp_africa, @EdithHeinesWFP

New Zealand Embassy, Addis Ababa
Email: dm-aue@mfat.govt.nz
Twitter: @MFATNZ
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NZEmbassyEthiopia




URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/109377-new-zealand-contributes-nzd-68-million-facilitate-market-linkages-smallholder-farmers-rwanda




Date: 23 September 2020
Title: United Nations and European Union in Rwanda with Government of Rwanda to jointly mark UN 75 Anniversary
Content: 23 September 2020

Joint Press Release – For Immediate Release
21 September 2020 | Kigali, Rwanda

The United Nations and European Union in Rwanda will on Monday, 21 September 2020 jointly mark the 75th anniversary of the UN under the theme; “The Future We Want, the UN We Need: Reaffirming our Commitment to Multilateralism”.
The Rt. Hon. Edouard Ngirente will be the Guest of Honour. Activities to mark this day will include a high-level policy dialogue together with the Government of Rwanda and the launch of the Integrated National Financing Framework (INFF). Rwanda is among the 15 Countries globally, pioneering this important initiative on financing for development.
“As the UN marks her 75th Anniversary globally and in Rwanda, we are proud of being a trusted partner in Rwanda’s remarkable development trajectory for the benefits of the people leaving no one, thanks to a strong leadership, a clear vision and conducive environment for a fruitful cooperation between the Government, the UN, other development partners, Civil society and communities. Building on what we have achieved together, with a stronger multilateralism and a renewed UN, we will do more and better to achieve the Sustainable development goals, for the people, the planet, peace and prosperity” said Fodé Ndiaye, UN Resident Coordinator.
“No one is safe alone, no one is strong alone; we are stronger together. The COVID19 pandemic reminds us how interconnected we are and how crucial multilateral cooperation and a rules-based international order, with the United Nations at its core, are.” said Ambassador Nicola Bellomo, Head of Delegation of the European Union to Rwanda.
The European Union and the United Nations are the world’s leading proponents and defenders of a multilateral and rules-based global governance system. Together, the institutions respond to global and national crises, threats and challenges which cannot be addressed by individual nations alone, but require cooperation and coordination based on universal values and rules and the UN Charter. Today’s interconnected world and the global challenges such as the COVID-19 outbreak have underscored the necessity of global cooperation.
In Rwanda, the UN’s achievements would not be possible without support and funds from different partners, including the European Union and its member states. The UN and the EU have been at the forefront to implement the principle of Leaving No One behind, based on diversity and inclusion.
There are numerous examples of the impact of EU-UN partnership in Rwanda over recent years. Through a virtual exhibition, the UN and EU will celebrate these achievements and more in demonstrating solid commitment to the principle of multilateral cooperation.
Our cooperation has contributed to changes in policies and strategies, in building and strengthening resilient institutions including a strong data system with NISR, in deepening democratic and accountable governance, human rights and citizens’ engagement, in promoting sector development, innovations and regional integration, focusing on youth, gender and the private sector, in managing shocks and disasters.
The EU and the UN pledge their continued battle for a better world for all!



Contacts :

UN Resident Coordinator’s Office
Maureen Twahirwa
Communications Officer
Phone : +250 788301153
maureen.twahirwa@un.org


EU
Flora KAITESI
Press and Information Officer
Delegation of the European Union to Rwanda
Phone: +250 788-830866
flora.kaitesi@eeas.europa.eu








URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/92185-united-nations-and-european-union-rwanda-government-rwanda-jointly-mark-un-75-anniversary




Date: 19 August 2020
Title: 1 million USD from the United Nations to support Disasters Response and Early Recovery in Rwanda
Content: 19 August 2020
The UN Central Emergency Fund (CERF) is contributing one million (1,000,000) USD to support the United Nations in Rwanda in partnership with the Government of Rwanda for the implementation of a joint project to support Disasters Response and Early Recovery.
The UN Central Emergency Fund (CERF) is contributing one million (1,000,000) USD to support the United Nations in Rwanda in partnership with the Government of Rwanda for the implementation of a joint project to support Disasters Response and Early Recovery. The Joint project on “Provision of Emergency Shelter and agriculture support” to communities affected by floods and landslides in three Districts of Ngororero, Gakenke and Nyabihu will ensure that the most vulnerable displaced households are provided with immediate and emergency needs of shelter and agricultural assistance.
The project will be implemented over a six (6) months period by IOM & FAO through a partnership with the Government of Rwanda and national partners led by the Ministry in charge of Emergency Management (MINEMA) and comprising the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MINAGRI), the Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC) and Ngororero, Gakenke and Nyabihu Districts.
I wish to thank the Government of Rwanda and in this case the Ministry in charge of Emergency Management (MINEMA) and the participating UN Agencies FAO and IOM for partnering on this project we are launching. CERF financial support has come at the right time to support families most affected by floods and landslides early this year. I stand in unity and solidarity with families that lost their beloved ones and with those displaced who lost their properties in the midst of the challenging situation of COVID-19. Together, we shall prevail. Fodé Ndiaye, the UN Resident Coordinator
This emergency support echoes the UN’s commitment to the 2030 Agenda principle of “Leaving no one behind”.
The joint project is in line with the United Nations Development Assistance Plan (2018-2023) to further cooperating with the Government on disaster preparedness and response to man-made shocks providing multi-sectoral life-saving assistance. It is also aligned with Rwanda’s National Strategy for Transformation (NST1 2017-2024) and will contribute to reaching the SDG targets, through the reduction of the populations’ vulnerabilities.

Mr. Fodé Ndiaye
UN Resident Coordinator

URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/88000-1-million-usd-united-nations-support-disasters-response-and-early-recovery-rwanda




Date: 14 April 2020
Title: United States contributes US$9 Million to feed Burundian & Congolese Refugees in Rwanda
Content: 14 April 2020
KIGALI – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) today welcomed a US$5.5 million contribution from the United States of America to provide life-saving food and nutrition assistance to over 138,000 Burundian and Congolese refugees and asylum seekers in Rwanda.

KIGALI – The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) today welcomed a US$5.5 million contribution from the United States of America to provide life-saving food and nutrition assistance to over 138,000 Burundian and Congolese refugees and asylum seekers in Rwanda.
This is in addition to US$3.5 million received in November 2019 at a critical time that allowed WFP to ensure continued assistance to all refugees in the country and avoid ration reductions.
“We’re extremely grateful for the USA’s long-standing support to help disadvantaged women, children and men who have found refuge in Rwanda,” said Edith Heines, WFP Rwanda Representative and Country Director.
“This generous contribution will enable WFP to continue its programmes supporting food and nutrition security for refugees, which also benefits host Rwandan communities by stimulating local markets and creating jobs.”
Camp-based refugees in Rwanda have limited livelihood opportunities. According to a recent joint assessment mission conducted by the Rwandan Ministry of Emergency Management, the UN refugee agency and WFP, more than 80 percent of refugees’ income is derived from food and cash assistance, because of the limited income-generating opportunities available.
The majority of WFP food assistance to refugees in Rwanda is provided through cash-based transfers. This enables refugees to purchase the food of their choice at markets within or around camps and helps improve their dietary diversity.
A study by researchers from WFP and the University of California, Davis in 2016 provided evidence that assistance for refugees has a positive effect on the local economy where they live – an effect that is magnified significantly when the refugees’ food assistance comes in the form of cash.
The study found that refugee spending substantially boost incomes in local communities. For every US dollar of cash transferred by WFP, individual incomes in and around the camps increase by 150 percent to 195 percent annually. This is because there is an added need for goods and supplies from both community and refugee households.
In addition to cash-based transfers, the latest US contribution will enable WFP to provide specialized nutritious foods for the treatment of moderate acute malnutrition for children under five years of age and for the prevention of malnutrition for children aged six months to two years of age and pregnant and breastfeeding women.
Refugee and host community children attending school in and around refugee camps will be provided with porridge each school day to reduce dropout rates and increase their school attendance. Approximately 50 percent of the food provided to refugees with this support will be locally sourced.

#                           #                            #

The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies, building prosperity and supporting a sustainable future for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.

Follow us on Twitter: @wfp_africa, @EdithHeinesWFP

For more information please contact:
Emily Fredenberg, WFP/Kigali, Email: emilyjean.fredenberg@wfp.org, Mobile: +250 789 451 347



For more information please contact:
Emily Fredenberg, WFP/Kigali, Email: emilyjean.fredenberg@wfp.org, Mobile: +250 789 451 347
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/40975-united-states-contributes-us9-million-feed-burundian-congolese-refugees-rwanda




Date: 30 December 2019
Title: 2 million USD from the Joint Sustainable Development Fund to strengthen social protection work in Rwanda
Content: 30 December 2019
Communique on behalf of Mr. Fode Ndiaye, UN Resident Coordinator, Rwanda
The Joint Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Fund set up by the Member States of the United Nations to accelerate the implementation of the SDGs globally has allocated 2,000,000 USD to the United Nations in Rwanda to implement a joint programme that will contribute to the Government of Rwanda’s efforts for integrated social protection to end poverty in all its forms, leaving no one behind.
The programme will be implemented over a two-year period from 2020-2021 by UNICEF, WFP,  FAO and the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator (RCO) with a coordinating role, through a partnership with the Government of Rwanda and national partners; Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC) as lead, Ministry in charge of Emergency Management (MINEMA), Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MINAGRI), and Local Administrative Entities Development Agency (LODA) focusing on Kirehe, Karongi, Burera, Nyamagabe, and Rutsiro Districts. The three implementing agencies will add their own resources to the joint programme with an amount of 1,040,000 USD putting the total available funds at 3,040,000 USD.
The “Joint Programme on Accelerating Integrated Policy interventions to Promote Social Protection in Rwanda” aims to provide innovative and catalytic solutions to deliver transformative results to the nation’s existing social protection framework. The programme’s integrated strategy involves supporting the Government of Rwanda on multiple levels, from enhancing the coordination around social protection at policy level, strengthen the existing systems in social protection to enhance the effective delivery of services and support innovative poverty reduction and community-led initiatives at decentralized level.
The Government of Rwanda represented by MINALOC has led the process to ensure that the programme contributes to the government’s current needs and vision for the social protection sector and that it will contribute directly to government national priorities for poverty eradication and district-level plans.
“With appreciation to the Joint SDG Fund for this financial support, we also commend the government of Rwanda that stands out as exemplary in its strong structure, clear goals, and effective commitment to achieving tangible results. This provides a conducive context for the UN to work, and partner with the Government and national stakeholders and contribute to the development of the country and the wellbeing of the people leaving no one behind, through the very relevant for poverty eradication of the social protection framework.”.
The joint programme will contribute to achieving the ambitious SDG targets in eliminating poverty and hunger, significantly reducing inequalities while working in a climate-smart manner. The join programme is a part of the United Nations Development Plan for Rwanda (UNDAP 2018-2023) and it is aligned with Rwanda’s National Strategy for Transformation (NST1 2017-2024), Social Protection Strategic Plan (2018-2024) and the Government’s Joint Multisectoral Action Plan to Eradicate Extreme Poverty.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/31430-2-million-usd-joint-sustainable-development-fund-strengthen-social-protection-work-rwanda




Date: 20 December 2019
Title: United Kingdom contributes £3 million to feed Burundian refugees in Rwanda
Content: 20 December 2019
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) today welcomed a contribution of £3 million (US$3.8 million) from the United Kingdom to help save the lives of over 60,000 Burundian refugees in Mahama camp in eastern Rwanda who had faced ration cuts this month.
“This contribution enables WFP to continue to reach the most vulnerable women, girls, boys and men in Mahama with life-saving food and nutritional assistance,” said Edith Heines, WFP Rwanda Representative and Country Director.
“These funds through the Department for International Development allowed WFP to avert cuts from this month and reinstate cash-based transfers to all camp residents,” she added.
WFP uses a hybrid model of cash and in-kind food assistance to support the Burundian refugees in Mahama. Cash enables refugees to purchase food of their choice at markets in or around the camp, improving their dietary diversity and supporting the local economy.
With support from the United Kingdom and other donors, WFP can also continue providing highly fortified nutritious foods to the most vulnerable in Mahama to improve their nutritional status. These include children under two years of age, pregnant women and nursing mothers, as well as people living with HIV/AIDS and patients with tuberculosis who are on treatment.
As a result of such nutrition support, child stunting was cut from 46 percent in 2015 to 25.5 percent in 2019 and wasting went from 10.3 percent to 2.3 percent in the same time period.
Refugees in Mahama have limited livelihood opportunities and mainly depend on food and nutritional assistance from WFP.
WFP continues to explore opportunities for refugees to find livelihoods and integrate with local host communities. This is supported jointly by partners such as the UN refugee agency, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, civil society organizations and the government of Rwanda.
Mahama is the sixth and largest refugee camp in Rwanda and was established in April 2015.
#                              #                                 #
The United Nations World Food Programme - saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development. WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future.
Follow us on Twitter:  @wfp_africa, @EdithHeinesWFP
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/29314-united-kingdom-contributes-%C2%A33-million-feed-burundian-refugees-rwanda




Date: 14 November 2019
Title: Sweden and UN Rwanda partnership to support UNDAP II
Content: 14 November 2019
KIGALI, 14 NOVEMBER 2019
“The UN values the ongoing strong partnership with the Government of Sweden, both globally and here in Rwanda to accompany the UN reforms and accelerate the implementation of the agenda 2030. This new agreement will contribute to supporting Rwanda’s continued and impressive development. I am strongly convinced that this partnership will have a clear impact on people’s lives, leaving no one behind.” said Fodé Ndiaye, UN Resident Coordinator.
These resources will enable the UN to implement interventions related to sustainable economic growth, jobs and livelihoods; natural resources and climate change; gender equality, human rights and justice; and democratic processes and quality service delivery and evidence-based policy:  https://rwanda.un.org/en/1236-undap-ii-united-nations-development-assistance-plan-2018-2023.
Both Sweden and the UN expressed that the collaboration will be carried out under the auspices of SDG 17 – Partnerships to leverage strengths and drive transformative change.
“The collaboration with One UN and the financial support to UNDAP II demonstrate Sweden’s strong willingness to support the UN reforms for a more coherent and effective UN system at the national level but also to contribute to Rwanda's efforts to achieve sustainable poverty reduction as well as attaining the Sustainable Development Goals. It’s only in partnership with different actors we can achieve the ambitious Agenda 2030”, said Anne Höglund, Head of Mission, Embassy of Sweden.
The UN and Sweden underlined the desire to join efforts to support the Government of Rwanda to successfully implement the NST 1 based on the country’s vision 2050, taking into account the Agendas 2030 and 2063.


More information is available from:

Maureen Twahirwa (Communications)
Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
maureen.twahirwa@un.org

Sara Haglund (First Secretary and Senior Programme Manager)
Embassy of Sweden
sara.haglund@gov.se
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/24878-sweden-and-un-rwanda-partnership-support-undap-ii




Date: 26 September 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: IOM Provides Support for Socio-Economic Development at the Rusizi II Border
Content: 26 September 2019
KIGALI, 26 SEP 2019 - The project aims to strengthen the social cohesion and economic integration of the cross-border communities in Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) through effective implementation of an integrated border management system, facilitated by improved infrastructure, especially with the construction of the One Stop Border Post (OSBP) at the Rusizi II border to enhance cross border trade and movements.
The Rusizi II border is a critical geographical location to set up the OSBP due to its importance as a trade and transport corridor and the daily movement of the cross-border communities, who cross in search of employment, business opportunities and health.
This is the first OSBP project that IOM is implementing in Africa.  Through this project, IOM is taking a unique approach in contributing to the nexus between migration management and trade through its expertise in migration and border management.
IOM’s added value to the OSBP structure comes from building cohesive institutional capacities in migration management tailored to the OSBP model. Additionally, increasing socio economic benefits while contributing to cross border social cohesion through the empowerment of cross-border traders (mostly women) and raising awareness on health and environmental issues that directly impact the lives of communities are all factors that IOM intends to support within this project.
IOM will reinforce its core function in supporting the seamless movement of people and goods while at the same time improving the communication between border agencies in the two countries.
Through this project, IOM and TMEA will empower and improve the lives of over three million people living in Bakavu and Ruzsizi II regions in the DRC and Rwanda, respectively.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/19515-press-release-iom-provides-support-socio-economic-development-rusizi-ii-border




Date: 26 September 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: In Rwanda, IOM Conducts Final Validation Workshop on Migration Profile
Content: 26 September 2019
MUSANZE, 26 SEP 2019 - The main outcome of the workshop was to provide senior officials from the Directorate General of Immigration and Emigration (DGIE) of Rwanda with detailed information on the process, methodology and the main chapters of the migration profile. The workshop also intended to validate the Migration Profile for Rwanda as well as provide insight and understanding of the profile to the DGIE senior management officials as way of ensuring sustainability.
IOM in close collaboration with the Government of Rwanda developed a migration profile—the first of its kind for the country. The overall purpose of the Migration Profile for Rwanda is to promote evidence-based policymaking and to support the mainstreaming of migration in the development and policymaking process in the country.
Anecdotal evidence show that migration related data is usually kept within the respective government institutions. As a result, the migration profile will streamline migration data in a way that can be accessible and effectively used by policymakers, government institutions, civil society and migrants.
During the workshop, IOM consultant, presented the Migration Profile for Rwanda to the DGIE officials during which they explained the general objective of a migration profile and a summary of the research findings related to the impact of migration, migration trends and migration governance. Additionally, the participants reviewed each chapter and provided recommendations. They then validated the profile.
The Migration Profile for Rwanda will result in the development of methodologies for migration data collection, analysis, and sharing to ensure the transparency of migration related data as well as provide an overall comprehensive analysis of the migration situation of the county.
The migration profile will be launched and disseminated by December 2019.


More information is available from:
Alice KARARA
International Organization for Migration, (IOM) Rwanda
E-mail: AKarara@iom.int
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/19505-press-release-rwanda-iom-conducts-final-validation-workshop-migration-profile




Date: 06 August 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: Greater resilience needed for African food security in the face of climate change
Content: 06 August 2019
KIGALI, 6 AUG 2019 - Resilience must be boosted in Africa in response to climate change, according to participants at the high-level Africa Food Security Leadership Dialogue hosted by the Government of Rwanda in Kigali (5-6 August), in partnership with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the African Union Commission, the African Development Bank, the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the World Bank.

"Farmers have always been innovators. What they need are policies that protect them and increase their resilience to climate change. They need access to information, technology, and investment, and they should be brought to the conversation on innovation," FAO's Deputy Director-General Maria Helena Semedo said.
Africa's food and agriculture sectors are among the most vulnerable to the negative impacts of climate change. Small-holder farmers, small entrepreneurs, and their families, whose livelihoods depend on rain-fed agriculture, are most threatened by climate change.
Building resilience is among FAO's key development priorities in Africa. Resilience against multiple threats, including climate change, is a key prerequisite for sustainable development, in particular when it comes to the challenge of feeding over 2 billion Africans by 2050. 

Semedo was speaking at a panel discussion on scaling up investments and policies for food security in response to climate change, alongside African Union Commissioner for Rural Economy and Agriculture Josefa Sacko, President of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) Gilbert Houngbo, the World Bank's Vice President for the Africa Region Hafez Ghanem, and the Director for Agriculture and Agro-Industry at the African Development Bank (AfDB) Martin Fregene.

According to the latest FAO data, hunger is on the rise in almost all African sub-regions making Africa the region with the highest prevalence of undernourishment, at almost 20 percent. The situation is mostly driven by conflict and climate change and is especially critical in Eastern Africa, where 30.8 percent (133 million people) are struggling to have enough to eat.  

Conference participants heard that it is possible to adapt to these risks with immediate and bold action focused on resilience.

On Monday, participants endorsed a commitment to better support African countries to accelerate progress towards improved food security.

The aim of the AFSLD is to facilitate engagement between governments and key development partners to galvanize unified action for Africa's agriculture and food systems in response to climate change. Around 250 people are attending the two-day event, including the President of Rwanda Paul Kagame and European Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development Neven Mimica.

| read this story online | FRENCH
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/12131-press-release-greater-resilience-needed-african-food-security-face-climate-change




Date: 30 July 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: BTS and UNICEF call on young people to spread kindness on International Day of Friendship
Content: 30 July 2019
SEOUL/NEW YORK, 30 JUL 2019 - Global super stars and UNICEF supporters BTS have today - on UN International Day of Friendship - released an exclusive video that calls on young people to brighten someone’s day with kindness, as part of UNICEF’s campaign to #ENDviolence in and around schools.
Worldwide, some 150 million students, half of all students 13 to 15 years of age, report having experienced peer-to-peer violence in and around school.
The short video features the group singing their hit single, Answer: Love Myself, over fictional stories of children and young people facing incidents of violence, bullying and fear in and around schools. As the story unfolds, viewers see a switch in behaviour when peers start to offer friendship, support and love to those being bullied and hurt.
“Our LOVE MYSELF campaign is all about encouraging every young person to find the love from within themselves and spreading that love to others,” said BTS. “We want everyone to take part in ending violence by sharing love and kindness.”
The video is released as part of BTS and Big Hit Entertainment's LOVE MYSELF campaign, which raised over US$ 2 million to help UNICEF #ENDviolence in and around schools. In December last year, children and young people from around the world drafted an #ENDviolence Youth Manifesto calling on governments, teachers, parents and each other, to help end violence and ensure students feel safe in and around school, including a commitment to being kind and respectful.
UNICEF is inviting children and young people to take the first step by leaving a kind note for someone, either in real life or on the internet and sharing it for others to see.
“Children and young people have told us time and again that being treated with kindness and respect helps them to feel safe in and around school,” said UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore. “Every day students face a range of violent acts, from bullying and physical attacks to corporal punishment, sexual assault and harassment online. By being kind, children and young people can show their support for each other and brighten someone’s day. We’re grateful to BTS for their continued commitment to making sure that no child is afraid to go to school.”

Notes to Editors:
The #ENDviolence Youth Manifesto was presented to government ministers at the Education World Forum in London earlier this year, as part of the Safe to Learn partnership. In it, students highlighted the importance and need for protection within schools and called for legal measures to keep students safe in school and on the journey, clear rules and regulations on student behaviour, trained teachers and counsellors to respond to students in need, as well as environments that promote diversity and peaceful coexistence. They also called for students to treat one another with respect and break taboos often associated with reporting violence to teachers and other authorities.
UNICEF is encouraging young people around the world to raise their voices to #ENDviolence in and around schools and to tell us how they are working together and what solutions they are using to #ENDviolence in and around schools once and for all. Find out more at https://uni.cf/end-violence.
UNICEF works around the world to end violence in and around schools. These efforts include the organization’s #ENDviolence campaign and Safe to Learn -- a partnership between UNICEF, the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID), UNESCO, other members of the Global Partnership to End Violence Against Children, and UNGEI.
Learn more about UNICEF’s #ENDviolence global campaign here.

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone.
For more information about UNICEF and its work, visit: www.unicef.org
Follow UNICEF on Twitter and Facebook

About BTS
BTS, an acronym of Bangtan Sonyeondan or “Beyond the Scene”, is a South Korean boyband that is capturing the hearts of millions of fans globally. The members of BTS are RM, Jin, SUGA, j-hope, Jimin, V and Jung Kook. Gaining recognition from their authentic, self-produced music and top-notch performances to the way they interact with their fans, the band is well on their way to becoming a global icon since they debuted in June 2013. While imparting a positive influence through activities such as the LOVE MYSELF campaign and the UN ‘Speak Yourself’ speech, BTS has mobilized millions of fans across the world (named ARMY), topped prominent music charts, sold out worldwide tours including stadiums and have been recognized with numerous prestigious awards like the Billboard Music Awards and American Music Awards.
About Big Hit Entertainment
Founded in February 2005 in South Korea by CEO and Producer Bang Si-Hyuk, Big Hit Entertainment's core business focuses on music production, artist management and publishing. Big Hit’s business ventures incorporate and develop a range of content produced from top-notch artists' IP, including global boyband BTS and its newest addition TOMORROW X TOGETHER. With its mission of 'Music & Artist for Healing', Big Hit strives to impart a positive influence through content while providing comfort and inspiration to music fans worldwide.
For more information, please contact:
Helen Wylie, UNICEF New York, Tel: +1 917 244 2215, hwylie@unicef.org

URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/10523-press-release-bts-and-unicef-call-young-people-spread-kindness-international-day-friendship




Date: 29 July 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: Diaspora Engagement in TVET Schools as a Development Tool
Content: 29 July 2019
KIGALI, 29 JUL 2019 - Like many countries in Africa, Rwanda has many of its nationals living abroad and playing an important role in the country’s development. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) recognizes diaspora engagement to effectively participate in the socioeconomic development of a country.
To realize this, IOM and the Government of Rwanda, through the Integrated Polytechnic Regional Colleges (IPRCs), are implementing the “Diaspora Engagement to support TVET in Rwanda” Project, through which selected Rwandan diaspora professionals will deliver a Training of Trainers (ToT) to technical trainers in priority courses at the eight IPRCs across the country. The project is funded by the Government of Belgium.
To identify the existing resource gaps in the IPRCs, a needs assessment mission was conducted in June 2019 to match priority Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) subjects with Rwandan diaspora who have a high level of TVET skills.
The Technical Working Group (TWG) which conducted the research was composed of IOM, Rwanda Polytechnic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation as well as the Ministry of Education. The findings of the study will serve as a baseline to match IPRCs’ needs with skills and knowledge of the relevant diaspora professionals, residing in Belgium and Germany.
Under the project, IOM Rwanda, in close collaboration with Rwanda Polytechnic, organized a five-day workshop from 29 July to 2 August 2019. The workshop was aimed at enhancing the capacity of government officials in migration management and diaspora engagement; reviewing the draft needs assessment report on “Understanding the Human and Institutional Resource Needs of IPRCs”; finalizing the Terms of References (ToRs) of training areas for future diaspora engagement in TVET as well as conducting a TWG Meeting to discuss the project road map and implementation plan.
Thirteen government officials drawn from 8 IPRCs, Rwanda Polytechnic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Ministry of Education attended the workshop.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/11842-press-release-diaspora-engagement-tvet-schools-development-tool




Date: 23 July 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: A Migrant’s Six-Year Journey: “When Paul Came Over the Sea”
Content: 23 July 2019
KIGALI, 23 JUL 2019 - Friedrich-Ebert Stiftung Rwanda in cooperation with Goethe Institut and the University of Rwanda, organized two public screenings and debates (14/5) of the documentary, “When Paul Came Over the Sea”, demonstrating a migrant’s six-year-long journey.
In the documentary, Paul, the main character, starts his adventure in Cameroon and makes his way across the Sahara to the Moroccan Coast, living in a forest waiting for the right moment to cross the Mediterranean Sea. This is where he meets Jakob Preuss, a German filmmaker. Soon afterwards, Paul manages to cross over to Spain on an inflatable rubber boat. He survives – but half of his companions die on this tragic 50-hour odyssey. Once in Spain, instead of getting psychological help, he is sent to an immigration detention centre on a prison island.
It is only upon his release that Jakob and Paul meet again, at a Red Cross shelter in Granada, Spain. Because of the economic crisis in southern Europe, Paul decides to continue to Germany, the former colonizing power of Cameroon. Paul has applied for asylum in Germany; however, there are limited chances that he will get it.
The film was screened at the Goethe-Institut, the German cultural centre in Kigali, to more than 60 people. After the screening, the audience were able to ask questions to Paul via Skype. Paul now lives with the parents of the filmmaker at their home in Spain.
Alice Karara, a Project Officer with IOM Rwanda, defined IOM’s mandate and explained the meaning and importance of migration management for the well-being of all migrants and their families. She strongly advised potential labour migrants, including the youth in Rwanda, against irregular migration as it puts them at risk of being trafficked and exploited, saying:
“The youth needs to consult immigration authorities on requirements of safe labour mobility to avoid abuse.”
Jakob Preuss, the director of the film, also rooted for the positivity of migration, saying:
“It is in the interest of a country to allow migration in both directions,” as it is beneficial to migrants and countries.
He added:
“To the places where the migrants go, societies become diverse. Look at the example of the USA: its diverse society has registered great innovation and economic success. On returning, people bring new knowledge; some send remittances back home.”
A similar event was held at the University of Rwanda in Huye for more than 100 University students on 15 May 2019. It brought together panelists from the University of Rwanda and IOM Rwanda as well as the producer of the film.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/10905-press-release-migrant%E2%80%99s-six-year-journey-%E2%80%9Cwhen-paul-came-over-sea%E2%80%9D




Date: 23 July 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: IOM Holds First Ever Training on Migration Governance, Policy Framework for Staff in Rwanda
Content: 23 July 2019
KIGALI, 23 JUL 2019 - The International Organization for Migration (IOM) earlier this month held the first ever Migration Governance and Policy Framework (MiGoF) Training (21-22/5) for its staff in Rwanda.
IOM's MiGOF sets out a structure in which States and IOM can work together to address migration issues. The framework presents the ideal version of migration governance, to which States can aspire, and for which IOM can provide support and assistance.
The course demonstrated  how the MiGof contributes to IOM’s planning, project development and  reporting. It also built the capacity of the participants to use the Migration Governance Indicators (MGIs) – a tool based on the MiGOF – to assess governments’ migration governance as well as to support their implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Global Compact for Migration (GCM).
Finally, the participants learned how to communicate effectively with external stakeholders using the MiGOF.  The training sessions were facilitated by Alice Kimani from the IOM Regional Office in Nairobi.
More information is available from:
IOM Rwanda,
Email: iomrwanda@iom.int,
Tel:+250 252 586710 and +250 788 389723
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/10906-press-release-iom-holds-first-ever-training-migration-governance-policy-framework-staff




Date: 19 July 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: In Rwanda, Research on Understanding Human Trafficking Validated
Content: 19 July 2019
KIGALI, 19 JUL 2019 - The International Organization for Migration (IOM), in collaboration with the Government of Rwanda, organized a national meeting to validate research findings on “Understanding Human Trafficking in Rwanda: Causes, Effects, and Impact.”
The research, the first of its kind in the country, was conducted by Never Again Rwanda, a local NGO, and funded by United States Agency for International Development.
It was aimed at determining the scope of human trafficking in Rwanda, as well as its characteristics and associated factors, to formulate evidence-based recommendations to strengthen response to at the local and national level.
The key findings show that Rwanda is a transit country, and to a lesser extend a country of origin. The majority of intercepted victims were female (77.67%) and the most commons forms of human trafficking in Rwanda were identified to be labour and sex trafficking.  The research further revealed that Saudi Arabia is the most frequent destination (38.55%), followed closely by Uganda (37.35%) and Kenya (7.23%).
The Government of Rwanda has made significant achievements in combatting trafficking in the country; including passing a new law in 2018, training government officers and conducting awareness raising events.
Still, the research highlighted some remaining key challenges. These include scarce resources, inadequate victim testimonies and a lack of cooperation mechanisms with other countries. In addition, research findings show that service providers reported challenges related to identification. Assistance to victims is often short term due to lack of shelters. Male victims are often neglected too.
The research report will serve as a baseline for informed and evidenced based programming in the future.
IOM continues to actively support the Government of Rwanda in all its migration related efforts.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/11328-press-release-rwanda-research-understanding-human-trafficking-validated




Date: 02 July 2019
Title: Rules of Origin have the potential to ‘make-or-break’ the effectiveness of AfCFTA – UN Report
Content: 02 July 2019
KIGALI, RWANDA 29 JUN 2019 - One UN Rwanda organised a policy dialogue to discuss the newly-released UNCTAD Economic Development in Africa Report 2019, which notes that, within the context of the current negotiations on the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), rules of origin could be a game changer for the continent, as long as they are simple, transparent and business-friendly. The event was held on 26 June 2019 at the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), office for Eastern Africa in Kigali, Rwanda.
Released on Wednesday by the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the Economic Development in Africa Report 2019 argues that rules of origin – the criteria used to determine the ultimate nationality of a product – will be a major determinant of the effectiveness of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) that came into force in May.
The policy dialogue kicked off with remarks from Andrew Mold, Acting Director of ECA, Office for Eastern Africa – who clarified the AfCFTA’s current status. “The number of ratifications now is 24 and officially the AfCFTA came into force in May 2019”, he said. Mold stressed that the AfCFTA is not a simple trade agreement. He explained the ambitious nature of the AfCFTA, saying that “the agreement encompasses ambitions to proceed to a single unified customs union and includes protocols on cross-border investment, intellectual property and competition policy.”
The Economic Development in Africa Report 2019, entitled Made in Africa: Rules of origin for enhanced intra-African trade, was presented by Claudia Roethlisberger, an Economic Affairs Officer for UNCTAD. The meeting participants discussed at length the nature of Rules of Origin, which constitute ‘a passport for goods circulating under any preferential trading regime’.
Roethlisberger said that compared with Africa’s exports to other parts of the world, intra-African trade is much more centered around manufactured goods, with higher levels of product complexity. This tends to contribute to higher incomes and faster economic growth over the long-run.
UNCTAD estimates that intra-African exports were just 16.6 per cent of total exports in 2017, compared with 68.1 per cent of intra-regional in Europe. The report notes, however, that the AfCFTA is expected to boost intra-African trade by around a third once full tariff liberalization is implemented, attracting additional intra-African investments and creating new market opportunities to foster Africa’s industrialization:
“By supporting intra-African trade, the AfCFTA will advance Africa’s industrialization agenda, through regional value-chain development; it will also reduce Africa’s dependence on commodities and generate the jobs needed to harness Africa’s demographic dividend,”
said Roethlisberger.
While rules of origin are necessary instruments within any regional block, how they are addressed by the AfCFTA will directly affect the size and distribution of economic benefits among member countries, the report argues. In his closing remarks, Mold emphasized the importance of moving forward rapidly with the implementation of the AfCFTA:
“On the margins, East Africa is producing a lot of diversified goods – such as furniture, processed foods, and textiles. However, we are still too dependent on imports from outside the continent. This means there is enormous potential for increased production within the region. If you want to change the structure of trade and production, then you do it progressively. And you achieve that gradually through promoting intra-African component of trade much more aggressively than has been done in the past. This is one of the reasons why ECA and the UN system in general is so supportive of the AfCFTA.”


Notes for Editors:
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/6984-rules-origin-have-potential-%E2%80%98make-or-break%E2%80%99-effectiveness-afcfta-%E2%80%93-un-report




Date: 26 June 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: Rules of Origin Key to Success of African Continental Free Trade Area
Content: 26 June 2019
GENEVA, 26 JUN 2019  |  Rules of origin – the criteria needed to determine the nationality of a product – could make or break the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) that entered into force in May, says a new UNCTAD report.
The Economic Development in Africa Report 2019 notes that rules of origin could be a game changer for the continent as long as they are simple, transparent, business friendly and predictable.
“The AfCFTA is a landmark achievement in the continent’s history of regional integration and is expected to generate significant gains. But it is the rules of origin that will determine whether preferential trade liberalization under the AfCFTA can be a game changer for Africa’s industrialization,” UNCTAD Secretary-General Mukhisa Kituyi said.
Currently intra-African trade is a mere 15%, compared to around 47% in America, 61% in Asia and 67% in Europe, according to UNCTAD data for 2015 to 2017, but the AfCFTA could radically change that.
If the agreement is fully implemented, the gross domestic product of most African countries could increase by 1% to 3% once all tariffs are eliminated, according to UNCTAD estimates.
Boost to intra-African trade expected
The AfCFTA is expected to boost intra-African trade by 33% once full tariff liberalization is implemented, attracting additional intra-African investments and creating market opportunities to foster Africa’s industrialization through regional value chains, according to the report.
However, many of these gains could be undermined if rules of origin are not appropriately designed and enforced to support preferential trade liberalization.
Preferential trade liberalization is the raison d’être of a free trade area (FTA), whereby member countries scrap import tariffs and quotas among themselves on most traded goods, in order to confer a competitive advantage to firms within the FTA.
But to qualify for such preferences, firms within the FTA must meet rules of origin requirements.
These define the conditions that firms must comply with in order to authenticate that their goods originate from the FTA and are thus eligible for preferential treatment within the FTA.
“Rules of origin are the cornerstone for the effective implementation of preferential trade liberalization, the critical policy tool needed to make any FTA operational and are of vital importance in creating opportunities for African LDCs to boost trade,” Dr. Kituyi said.
How rules of origin would work
By granting each other trade preferences, AfCFTA member countries would source more intermediate and final goods among themselves rather than import from abroad.
By doing so, more trade would be created within the AfCFTA, serving as a base to support the development of regional value chains and the building of manufacturing capacities in Africa.
Trade and industrialization are closely intertwined, as spurring regional integration is likely to boost domestic and regional value addition.
By supporting intra-African trade, the AfCFTA would also advance Africa’s industrialization agenda through regional value-chain development, reduce Africa’s dependence on commodities and generate the jobs needed to harness Africa’s demographic dividend.
But whether in practice firms within the AfCFTA utilize trade preferences and the extent to which they would do so depends on the way rules of origin are designed and implemented.
Rules of origin should neither be costly nor complex
The report warns that if rules of origin are made too costly or complex to comply with, firms may instead forego these preferences and choose to trade with partners outside the AfCFTA.
Equally, the status quo may prove more appealing; for example, they may stick to trading only within existing regional economic communities, with few incremental gains arising from consolidating the regional market.
While rules of origin should be context specific, UNCTAD recommends that they are kept simple, transparent, business friendly and predictable.
Also, the rules should take into account the level of productive capacities and structural asymmetries across the broad set of countries, including the Least Developed Countries (LDCs), which face challenges in making use of preferential tariffs, let alone implement demanding origin requirements.
Countries unable to tap preferential treatment
The report shows that some African LDCs and non-LDCs are largely unable to make use of preferential treatment for their exports to external partners.
These countries include Benin (preference utilization rate of 4.6%), Burkina Faso (0%), the Central African Republic (0%), Djibouti (3.5%), Equatorial Guinea (6.8%), Guinea (0%) and Guinea-Bissau (0%).
Others are Liberia (0%), Libya (0%), Mali (0.4%), Seychelles (0%), Sierra Leone (0%), Somalia (1.1%), Togo (0%) and Tanzania (6%).
To make AfCFTA rules of origin accessible to firms, an online intra-African trade platform serving as a repository for rules of origin in multiple local languages could be created, the report recommends. Simple rules of origin make it easier to detect origin fraud.
Further, to make AfCFTA rules of origin less costly for firms to comply with, the capacities of customs authorities in enforcing them should be built and cross-border cooperation among customs authorities fostered.
The report also notes that establishing regular platforms for public–private dialogues can help in identifying any challenges to implementation of rules of origin within the AfCFTA to keep them business friendly and supportive of trade for the private sector.
***

What are rules of origin?
Rules of origin are a “passport” enabling goods to circulate duty-free within a free trade area (FTA) as long as these goods qualify as originating within the FTA.
The rules define the criteria that must be met for a product to be considered as having its origin in an exporting country within the FTA and qualify for preferential treatment (zero import tariffs) inside the FTA. In other words, they determine the economic origin of goods within an FTA.
A committee on rules of origin will be set up under the AfCFTA agreement to annually review the implementation of the rules, its transparency provisions and submit reports and recommendations to a committee of senior trade officials.
Contacts
Contacts : UNCTAD Communications and Information Unit, +41 22 917 5549/8033/5828, +41 79 502 43 11, unctadpress@unctad.org,unctad.org/press
To receive UNCTAD press material, please register here.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/6213-press-release-rules-origin-key-success-african-continental-free-trade-area




Date: 19 June 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: Worldwide displacement tops 70 million, UN Refugee Chief urges greater solidarity in response
Content: 19 June 2019
GENEVA, 19 JUN 2019 - Data from UNHCR’s annual Global Trends report, released today, shows that almost 70.8 million people are now forcibly displaced. To put this in perspective, this is double the level of 20 years ago, 2.3 million more than a year ago, and corresponds to a population between that of Thailand and Turkey.
The figure of 70.8 million is conservative, in particular as the crisis in Venezuela is still only partly reflected in this number. In all, some 4 million Venezuelans, according to data from governments receiving them, have left their country, making this among the world’s biggest recent displacement crises. Although the majority need international refugee protection, as of today only around half a million have taken the step of formally applying for asylum.
“What we are seeing in these figures is further confirmation of a longer-term rising trend in the number of people needing safety from war, conflict and persecution. While language around refugees and migrants is often divisive, we are also witnessing an outpouring of generosity and solidarity, especially by communities who are themselves hosting large numbers of refugees. We are also seeing unprecedented engagement by new actors including development actors, private businesses, and individuals, which not only reflects but also delivers the spirit of the Global Compact on Refugees,” said UN High Commissioner for Refugee Filippo Grandi. “We must build on these positive examples and redouble our solidarity with the many thousands of innocent people who are forced to flee their homes each day.”
Within the 70.8 million figure in the Global Trends report are three main groups. The first is refugees, meaning people forced to flee their country because of conflict, war or persecution. In 2018, the number of refugees reached 25.9 million worldwide, 500,000 more than in 2017. Included in this total are 5.5 million Palestine refugees who are under the care of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency.

The second group is asylum seekers – people outside their country of origin and receiving international protection, but awaiting the outcome of their claim to refugee status. At the end of 2018 there were 3.5 million asylum seekers globally.
The third and biggest group, at 41.3 million, is people displaced to other areas within their own country, a category commonly referred to as Internally Displaced People or IDPs.
Overall growth in displacement continued to exceed the rate at which solutions are being found for people who become displaced. With refugees, the best solution is being able to return home voluntarily, in safety and dignity. Other solutions include being integrated into the host community or being resettled to a third country. However, only 92,400 refugees were resettled in 2018, less than 7 per cent of those awaiting resettlement. Some 593,800 refugees were able to return home, while 62,600 became naturalized.
“With every refugee situation, wherever it is, however long it has been going on for, there has to be an enduring emphasis on solutions and removing obstacles to people being able to return home,” said Grandi. “This is complex work in which UNHCR is constantly engaged but which also requires all countries to come together for a common good. It is one of the great challenges of our times.”
****
Global Trends 2018 – 8 refugee facts you need to know
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/5641-press-release-worldwide-displacement-tops-70-million-un-refugee-chief-urges-greater-solidarity




Date: 12 June 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: WFP Thanks EU for Consistent Support to Refugees in Rwanda
Content: 12 June 2019
KIGALI, 12 JUN 2019 - The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Rwanda welcomes €500 000 (US$600,000) in humanitarian funding from the European Union (EU) that will help meet the most pressing food needs of over 60,000 vulnerable Burundian refugees in eastern Rwanda.
“The European Union has been a steadfast donor to WFP over the years and their commitment to supporting refugees is admirable,” said Edith Heines, WFP Representative and Country Director in Rwanda, adding:
“The value and importance of consistent funding cannot be stressed enough as it ensures we can meet the continued needs of refugees and for this we are very grateful to European taxpayers. We look forward to continuing our partnership with the EU to save and change lives in Rwanda.”
“While the displacement of Burundian refugees is a forgotten crisis, the European Union continues to show solidarity with displaced Burundians who fled conflict in their home country," said Christos Stylianides, the EU Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management.
He added:
"Our partnership with WFP in Rwanda is sustaining lives by providing food assistance to thousands of Burundian refugees at the Mahama refugee camp. Through our support of cash transfers for refugees, we are committed to help the people in need and preserve the dignity of those we reach through our humanitarian funding”
In 2018, €1.8 million (US$2 million) from the European Union helped WFP to continue providing full food rations and safeguard the food security of over 60,000 refugees. For the past years, the European Union has been contributing to helping vulnerable people at Mahama Refugee Camp, the newest and largest refugee camp in the country.
WFP relies on its strong partnership with the European Union.  Thanks to humanitarian funding from the European Union, WFP continues to meet the food requirements of Burundian refugees through cash-based transfers and in-kind food assistance.
EU-funded actions also address the nutritional needs of children at the camp. WFP provides specialised nutritious foods for the treatment of moderate acute malnutrition in children under five years of age and to prevent malnutrition in children aged six months to two years.
With other stakeholders, including the United Nations and civil society partners, WFP is increasingly exploring opportunities for refugee integration and self-reliance through income-generating opportunities and other support for livelihoods.
Mahama refugee camp opened in April 2015 and is the most densely populated of Rwanda’s six refugee camps. It compares in size to Rwanda’s sixth largest city. Burundian refugees arrive almost daily at the camp, which has health centres, schools and a vibrant market place.

World Food Programme (WFP)
The United Nations World Food Programme - saving lives in emergencies and changing lives for millions through sustainable development. WFP works in more than 80 countries around the world, feeding people caught in conflict and disasters, and laying the foundations for a better future.
Follow us on Twitter: @wfp_africa, @EdithHeinesWFP

European Union (EU)
The European Union and its Member States are the world's leading donor of humanitarian aid.  Relief assistance is an expression of European solidarity with people in need all around the world. It aims to save lives, prevent and alleviate human suffering, and safeguard the integrity and human dignity of populations affected by natural disasters and man-made crises.
Through the European Commission’s Civil Protection and Humanitarian aid Operations department, the European Union helps millions of victims of conflict and disasters every year. With headquarters in Brussels and a global network of field offices, the EU provides assistance to the most vulnerable people on the basis of humanitarian needs.
Follow the EU on Twitter: @eu_echo
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/4176-press-release-wfp-thanks-eu-consistent-support-refugees-rwanda




Date: 07 June 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: New WHO Representative in Rwanda Presents Credentials to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
Content: 07 June 2019
KIGALI, 22 MAY 2019 - The newly appointed Representative of the World Health Organization (WHO) to the Republic of Rwanda, Dr Kasonde Mwinga, today presented her credentials to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Dr Richard Sezibera.
The Minister accepted the credentials and welcomed Dr Mwinga to Rwanda.
In her remarks, the WHO Representative congratulated the Government of Rwanda for its various achievements in the health sector. She particularly commended Rwanda’s visionary leadership, its culture of being results focused and its use of innovative solutions to improve health and wellbeing.
Dr Mwinga indicated that the past success in achieving Millennium Goal Targets is a good stepping-stone towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and acknowledged the Government’s good collaboration with WHO. She assured the Minister that WHO would continue to collaborate in health matters in alignment with national priorities.
The WHO Representative pledged her full support to fulfill key health priorities and promote health in other sector policies to accelerate attainment of the SDGs, indicating that WHO’s work in Rwanda will focus on promoting health and wellbeing, protection from health emergencies and Universal Health Coverage.
Dr K. Mwinga, WHO Representative (left), and Dr R. Sezibera, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Rwanda (right)

The Rwandan Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation stated that the country has enjoyed good working relations with WHO across the three levels of the Organization. In Rwanda, health is the pillar for all Development and is placed high on the national agenda by His Excellency the President of the Republic of Rwanda.
The Minister indicated that the broad scope of the SDGs necessitates working across sectors and engaging the communities in addressing the determinants of health. He pointed out that decentralization, the Community Health Workers initiative, Performance Based Financing and the Community Based Health Insurance scheme continue to play a significant role in strong ownership and good performance of the health sector in Rwanda.
Dr Sezibera commended the WHO Director General’s message to countries on the adoption of Universal Health Coverage as a means to ensuring “no one is left behind” and reiterated his full support to WHO, inviting Dr. Mwinga to work with the Ministry of Health as the line Ministry as well as support collaborative capacities with other health contributing sectors.  
 
Dr Mwinga was appointed as the new World Health Organization (WHO) Representative in Rwanda from 01 May 2019, having joined WHO in 2001 and served in various capacities in several countries since.


More about the new Representative
Dr Mwinga is a pediatrician and public health specialist. Her previous roles include Team Leader in WHO India and Acting WHO Representative, Eritrea. She has worked in WHO African Regional Office, in Brazzaville and in WHO Zambia. Before joining WHO, she worked as a paediatrician and lecturer in Zambia. She holds a Master in Public Health from the University of Alabama at Birmingham in the United States, Health Management postgraduate certificate from Birmingham University in the United Kingdom and medical degrees (MBChB, MMed –Paed and B.SC.HB) from the University of Zambia.
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/4142-press-release-new-who-representative-rwanda-presents-credentials-minister-foreign-affairs-and




Date: 04 June 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: Japan Contribution Helps Improve Refugee Food Security in Mahama Camp
Content: 04 June 2019
KIGALI, 04 JUN 2019 - The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) were today joined by H.E. Ambassador Takayuki Miyashita in Mahama Refugee Camp in Eastern Province of Rwanda to celebrate a food donation valued at U.S. $1 million from the Government and people of Japan to the Burundian refugee operation in Rwanda.
“This contribution from the Government and People of Japan will enable WFP to provide food and nutrition assistance to over 57,000 Burundian refugees living in Mahama camp. WFP plans to distribute over 800 metric tons of food commodities including highly nutritious foods,” said Edith Heines, WFP Rwanda Representative and Country Director, thanking the generosity of the Government and people of Japan.
The Government of Japan is a key partner and supporter of the refugee programme in Rwanda. In the last ten years, the Government of Japan has contributed over US$ 10 million to refugee food assistance in Rwanda. WFP is an active partner of the Initiative for Food and Nutrition Security in Africa (IFNA), initiated by Japan and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
“I have already visited Mahama camp seven times and confirmed how our supports work for beneficiaries every time. I am delighted to be able to work with WFP again for improving living condition of the refugees especially in a very difficult situation. We thank WFP Rwanda and its partners for carrying out this important project,” said His Excellency Takayuki Miyashita, Ambassador of Japan to Rwanda.
In Mahama camp, WFP currently uses a hybrid approach of both cash and in-kind food assistance. In addition to the monthly lifesaving food assistance to refugees, WFP also provides specialized nutritious foods for the treatment of moderate acute malnutrition for children under five years of age; prevention of malnutrition for children aged six months to two years of age and pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers; and people living with HIV/AIDS & tuberculosis patients.



More information is available from:

Saori Ono (Development Cooperation Specialist)
Embassy of Japan in Rwanda
Tel: (+250) 252 500 884
Email: saori.ono-3@mofa.go.jp

Emma Grylle (Head of External Partnership and Communications)
World Food Programme
Tel: (+250) 788 142 110
Mobile  (+250) 789 451 347
Email: emma.grylle@wfp.org
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/4118-press-release-japan-contribution-helps-improve-refugee-food-security-mahama-camp




Date: 10 May 2019
Title: JOINT PRESS RELEASE: Japan funds UNHCR Rwanda USD 270,000 for Legal assistance, Child Protection and Health in Mahama camp.
Content: 10 May 2019
KIGALI, 10 MAY 2019 – The Government of Japan announced a new contribution of some $270,000 to UNHCR Representation in Rwanda for 2019 covering the needs of 58,552 Burundian refugees, who are living in the country’s largest refugee camp, Mahama, in the sectors of Legal Assistance and Legal Remedies, Child Protection and Health. The Government of Japan and UNHCR will hold a launch ceremony on June 4, 2019.
Mr. Ahmed Baba Fall, Representative of UNHCR Representation in Rwanda said “We are grateful for the contribution from the Government of Japan and looking forward to serve together the people of concerns”.
The projects aims to strengthen the capacity of UNHCR to maintain a favourable protection environment for Burundian refugees living in Mahama refugee camp and their access to core protection services like legal assistance, security against violence with a particular attention to refugee children at risk.  Considering that overall assistance is required to meet lifesaving needs of Burundian refugees. The project will also contribute maintain the access of beneficiaries to basic health services by supporting primary health care services, the  referral of patients with serious medical condition to secondary and tertiary health care and the access to essential drugs.
His Excellency Takayuki Miyashita, Ambassador of Japan to Rwanda said, “The Government of Japan focuses on development cooperation to protect and empower individuals, especially those liable to be vulnerable, to realize human security. Since I came to Rwanda 3years ago, I have visited Mahama refugee camp seven times to make sure how our supports work for beneficiaries. We thank UNHCR Rwanda and its partners for carrying out this important project”.
Over the last six years the GoJ has been one of the main UNHCR partner in Rwanda with around 7,000,000 USD of contribution in support of refugees.
As of 31st March 2019, Rwanda hosts a total refugee population of over 148,320 individuals who are living in six refugee camps, four transit/reception centres, and urban areas in the country.




More information is available from:

Saori Ono (Development Cooperation Specialist)
Embassy of Japan in Rwanda
Tel: (+250) 252 500 884
Email: saori.ono-3@mofa.go.jp

Emma Grylle (Head of External Partnership and Communications)
World Food Programme
Tel: (+250) 788 142 110
Mobile  (+250) 789 451 347
Email: emma.grylle@wfp.org

URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/4119-joint-press-release-japan-funds-unhcr-rwanda-usd-270000-legal-assistance-child-protection-and




Date: 15 April 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: UN staff join hands with families of murdered colleagues in Kwibuka 25 commemoration
Content: 15 April 2019
KIGALI, 15 APR 2019 - Last Friday, One UN staff – including the Resident Coordinator and Heads of Agencies – came together with the families and friends of the 64 murdered colleagues in commemoration of the Genocide against the Tutsi.
As staff and guests remembered the tragic events that took place 25 years ago, they honored the memory of those who were murdered, expressed unity with their loved-ones, and reflected on the suffering, resilience and reconciliation of those who survived.
The event was attended by Honorable Minister of Justice as Guest of Honor, the Commissioner General of Rwanda Correctional Services, the Representative of Rwanda National Police, and the Executive Secretary of NURC. Among other esteemed guests, the Diplomatic Corps were also well represented, including by the Dean.
Looking back on the Genocide against the Tutsi that took place in 1994, the One UN family heard the names of the staff who were killed and reflected on the tragedy and the personal stories of these former staff. Following an emotional testimony from Ms. Betty Faith, surviving daughter of Ndayisaba Festus, staff and guests saluted the Rwandan people and leadership on liberating their country and the remarkable journey it has made since that dark chapter, through messages of hope and a candle-lighting ceremony.
Rwanda inspires the rest of the world, having shown what's possible if we work vigorously and artfully to address the root causes that undermine social cohesion and create conditions for hatred and intolerance. The Kwibuka 25 event was also a time to reaffirm One UN Rwanda’s dedication to the development of this remarkable country.
In the words of the Secretary-General, António Guterres:
“The capacity for evil resides in all our societies, but so, too, do the qualities of understanding, kindness, justice and reconciliation. Let us work together to build a harmonious future for all. This the best way to honor those who lost their lives so tragically in Rwanda 25 years ago.”
In his speech, the UN Resident Coordinator (RC) Mr Fodé Ndiaye echoed this message, calling for unity and a renewal of commitment:
“Our vision for a better humanity, and a better world, is multifaceted. The holistic approach that we need requires principles of unity and cooperation more than ever. With this in mind, let us renew. Let us renew our commitments to work together - across sectors, across institutions, across agencies, across borders, across generations”
The Resident Coordinator’s heartfelt speech also gave acknowledgement to the failure of the UN system, recalling the words of the Special Advisor of the UN Secretary-General, USG Adama Dieng, who represented the Secretary-General during this 25th Commemoration of the Genocide against the Tutsi. Drawing attention to the instruments that have been set up since 1994 to prevent atrocity crimes and genocide, the RC commended Rwanda’s commitment to ensuring atrocities do not happen elsewhere in the world as one of the top contributors to peacekeeping forces.
Remarks expressing solidarity and empathy with the survivors in the audience were subsequently delivered by the Guest of Honor, during which he re-emphasized a zero tolerance to the perpetrators of the genocide against the Tutsi and those with genocide ideology in Rwanda and elsewhere. Esteemed guests then laid memorial wreaths at the foot of the memorial plaque listing the names of fallen colleagues, located at the entrance to the UNDP main building. Afterwards, One UN staff diffused from the ceremony in a procession, each depositing a white rose of remembrance at the foot of the plaque.
The day’s events were concluded with a get together with the families of the deceased, attended also by Heads of UN Agencies and other One UN staff.
ENDS



URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/1271-press-release-un-staff-join-hands-families-murdered-colleagues-kwibuka-25-commemoration




Date: 25 March 2019
Title: PRESS RELEASE: IOM Trains Rwanda’s Law Enforcement Officers on Identification, Investigation and Referral of Victims of Trafficking
Content: 25 March 2019
Kigali - The International Organization for Migration (IOM), in collaboration with the Government of Rwanda, conducted a Training of Trainers (TOT) for 33 law enforcement officers on identification, investigation and referral of victims of trafficking on 25-29 March. The training took place in Musanze District.
KIGALI, 25 MAR 2019 - The officers were selected from the Directorate General of Immigration and Emigration (DGIE), Rwanda Investigation Bureau (RIB), Rwanda National Police (RNP) and the National Public Prosecution Authority (NPPA).
The training was meant to strengthen the capacity of law enforcement agencies on identification of victims of trafficking as well as investigation of human trafficking related cases.  The training curricula was developed through close discussions with the Law Enforcement Agencies in Rwanda and is based on the IOM Training Needs Assessment 2018. The training is part of a project entitled “Improving Knowledge, Enforcement and Coordination of Counter Trafficking ‘’ (2017-2019) funded by the United States Department of International Development (USAID).
IOM works with One UN partners and Rwanda’s Ministry of Justice on strengthening the response to trafficking in persons.
“Intra-agency cooperation is the most vital component of a counter trafficking initiative and should reflect the geographical nature of the trafficking process in its investigations, cooperation and prosecution must stretch over origin, transit and destination states” stated Mr. Marcellino Ramkishun, Regional Thematic Specialist on Border Management at IOM Regional Office in Nairobi.
Also participants from the DGIE expressed their satisfaction about the ToT: "the training has showed us gaps in the Rwandan work against trafficking which needs to be addressed so that victims of trafficking can be assisted and followed up".
Some key achievements from the project include: the establishment of a Technical Committee on Counter Trafficking which consists of representatives from all relevant Government agencies and which increases the coordination of the efforts to combat trafficking in the country; the first research on trafficking in persons conducted in Rwanda which will be published soon. The research report will serve as a baseline study and for informed and evidenced based programming in the future.
In 2018 the Government of Rwanda adopted and promulgated the country’s first ever counter trafficking law relating to the prevention, suppression and punishment of trafficking in persons and exploitation.
IOM continues to actively support the Government of Rwanda in all its migration related efforts.

For further information please contact: Alia Hirji, IOM Rwanda: Email: AHirji@iom.int Tel: +250 789096997
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/5430-press-release-iom-trains-rwanda%E2%80%99s-law-enforcement-officers-identification-investigation-and




Date: 04 December 2018
Title: PRESS RELEASE ​UN Rwanda joins hands with the national and international community to mark the 70th Birthday of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Content: 04 December 2018
This Monday – the day the Universal Declaration of Human Rights turns 70 years old – the One UN in Rwanda will come together for discussion and celebration for the finale of a yearlong campaign #StandUp4HumanRights.
KIGALI, 04 DEC 2018 - This Monday – the day the Universal Declaration of Human Rights turns 70 years old – the One UN in Rwanda will come together for discussion and celebration for the finale of a yearlong campaign #StandUp4HumanRights.
The dignity of millions has been uplifted, thanks to the Declaration; thanks also to the commitment of member states, it has laid the foundations for a more just world. Human Rights Day exists to attract the attention “of the people of the world”. Among many things, it spotlights how the Declaration plays out in everyday lives.
“The promise of the declaration continues on its journey of being realized, but the very fact it has stood the test of time is extremely significant. Its continued relevance and poignance is testament to the enduring universality of its values”, said Chris Mburu, Senior Human Rights Advisor to the One UN in Rwanda.
Commemorating the day that the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration, back in 1948, International Human Rights Day is celebrated in every country of the World on 10thDecember of every year.
To highlight what the Universal Declaration means for people in their everyday lives, UN Human Rights launched a yearlong campaign under the theme: “STAND UP FOR HUMAN RIGHTS”. The celebration on the 10th December is the culmination of this far-reaching international campaign.
Joining hands with national partners such as the Ministry of Justice and the National Human Rights Commission, the day will include a variety of events and commemorations.
The ‘main event’ will be the diplomatic reception. Every year lends the opportunity for both the UN and its member states to reaffirm commitment to human rights. As the 70th Anniversary, this year is special. Taking place at Serena Hotel on the Monday evening, relevant Rwanda Government officials, members of the diplomatic community, UN representatives, civil society leaders, private sector representatives and other dignitaries will get together under one roof.
There is also an event in Parliament organized by the National Commissioner for Human Rights. The theme is Stand up for Human Rights: role of rights holders and duty bearers in promoting and protecting human rights in Rwanda. The event is a high level multi-stakeholders conference and will take place in the morning of Human Rights Day.
All members of the Public are invited to participate in the national conversation through the hashtag #StandUp4HumanRights.
ENDS
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/1269-press-release-%E2%80%8Bun-rwanda-joins-hands-national-and-international-community-mark-70th-birthday




Date: 20 October 2017
Title: PRESS RELEASE: Prevention of Torture: UN human rights body suspends Rwanda visit citing obstructions
Content: 20 October 2017
The United Nations Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture (SPT) has suspended its visit to Rwanda due to the lack of cooperation from the Government and to a series of obstructions imposed by authorities, notably in accessing some places of detention and in assuring the confidentiality of interviews with people deprived of their liberty.
GENEVA / KIGALI, 20 OCT 2017 - The United Nations Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture (SPT) has suspended its visit to Rwanda due to the lack of cooperation from the Government and to a series of obstructions imposed by authorities, notably in accessing some places of detention and in assuring the confidentiality of interviews with people deprived of their liberty. The SPT also received allegations that some interviewees could face reprisals.
The delegation suspended their mission on day five of their planned seven-day visit, which prevented the SPT from fulfilling its mandate under the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT). This is only the third time in 10 years that the SPT has suspended a mission.
“We have been barred from completing our work in some places, and grave limitations have been imposed on granting access to certain places of detention,” said Arman Danielyan, head of the STP delegation. “We have also been unable to carry out private and confidential interviews with some persons deprived of their liberty. Moreover, many of those we have managed to interview have expressed fears of reprisals. We must not place the persons that have cooperated with us in danger,” he added.
The delegation concluded that the visit as a whole was compromised to such an extent that it had to be suspended, as the SPT mandate could not be effectively carried out.
Under the provisions of the OPCAT, the SPT has the mandate to visit any of the 84 States parties to the Protocol and can make unannounced visits to any places where people are or might be detained. The visited country must grant the opportunity to the delegation to have private interviews with any persons deprived of their liberty, without witnesses.
The SPT mission to Rwanda also aimed at advising the authorities on the establishment of a national monitoring body, officially known as the National Prevention Mechanism (NPM), which according to the OPCAT should have a similar visiting mandate as that of the SPT and should have already been in place in Rwanda. The delegation also regrets that it was unable to meet with the relevant Parliamentary Committee in order to advise it on the draft NPM Law.
For the SPT, the key to preventing torture and ill-treatment lies in building constructive relations with the State concerned, and its guiding principles are cooperation and confidentiality.
“Now we call on the Government of Rwanda to further its cooperation with us and hope that it will abide by its international obligations in order to enter in a constructive dialogue with the SPT to enable us to resume our visit, including to advise on the establishment of an independent and effective National Preventive Mechanism in the country” said the head of delegation.
The SPT delegation comprised the following members: Mr. Arman Danielyan (Head of delegation, Armenia), Ms. Margarete Osterfeld (Germany), Mr. Kosta Mitrovic (Serbia), Ms. Zdenka Perovic (Montenegro) and Ms. Aneta Stanchevska (the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia).

ENDS

Background
The Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment has, to date, been ratified by 84 countries. The SPT communicates its recommendations and observations to States by means of a confidential report and, if necessary, to national preventive mechanisms. The SPT work is guided by the principles of confidentiality and cooperation.
The SPT is composed of 25 independent and impartial experts from different regions of the world. For more information on the mandate of Subcommittee, please visit: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/OPCAT/Pages/OPCATIndex.aspx
Tag and share: Twitter: @UNHumanRights and Facebook: unitednationshumanrights
Concerned about the world we live in? Then STAND UP for someone’s rights today.  #Standup4humanrights and visit the web page at http://www.standup4humanrights.org


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prévention de la torture: un organe des droits de l'homme de l'ONU suspend sa visite au Rwanda en invoquant des obstructions
GENÈVE / KIGALI (20 octobre 2017) - Le Sous-Comité des Nations Unies pour la prévention de la torture a suspendu sa visite au Rwanda en raison du manque de coopération du Gouvernement et d'une série d'obstacles imposés par les autorités, notamment pour accéder à certains lieux de détention et pour assurer le plein respect de la confidentialité des entretiens avec les personnes privées de liberté. Le Sous-Comité a également reçu des allégations selon lesquelles certaines personnes interrogées risquent d’être confrontées à des représailles.
La délégation a suspendu sa mission au cinquième jour d’une visite initialement prévue pour sept jours, ce qui a empêché le Sous-Comité de mener à bien son mandat en vertu du Protocole facultatif à la Convention contre la torture et autres peines ou traitements cruels, inhumains ou dégradants. Ce n'est que la troisième fois en 10 ans que le Sous-Comité se voit contraint de suspendre l’une de ses missions.
"Nous avons été empêchés d'achever notre travail dans certains lieux, et de graves limitations nous ont été imposées pour accéder à d’autres lieux de détention", a déclaré Arman Danielyan, chef de la délégation du Sous-Comité. "Nous avons également été empêchés de mener des entretiens privés et confidentiels avec certaines personnes privées de liberté. De plus, beaucoup de ceux que nous avons réussi à interviewer ont exprimé des craintes de représailles. Nous ne pouvons pas nous permettre de mettre en danger les personnes qui coopèrent avec nous", a-t-il ajouté.
La délégation a conclu que le mandat du Sous-Comité ne pouvait plus être efficacement exécuté et donc la visite devait être suspendue immédiatement.
En vertu des dispositions du Protocole facultatif, le Sous-Comité a pour mandat de se rendre dans n'importe lequel des 84 États parties au Protocole et de pouvoir effectuer des visites inopinées dans tous les lieux où des personnes sont ou pourraient être privées de liberté. Le pays visité est dans l’obligation de permettre à la délégation d'avoir des entretiens confidentiels avec toute personne privée de liberté, sans aucun témoin.
La mission au Rwanda avait également pour but de conseiller les autorités sur la mise en place d'un organe national de surveillance des lieux de privation de liberté, connu officiellement sous le nom de Mécanisme national de prévention (MNP). Selon le Protocole facultatif, ce mécanisme doit avoir un mandat similaire à celui du Sous-Comité et il aurait déjà dû être mis en place au Rwanda. La délégation regrette de ne pas avoir pu rencontrer la commission parlementaire compétente pour la conseiller, comme il était prévu, sur le projet de loi en discussion sur le sujet.
Pour le SPT, la prévention de la torture et des mauvais traitements repose sur l'établissement de relations constructives avec l'État concerné, et ses principes directeurs sont la coopération et la confidentialité.
"Nous appelons maintenant le gouvernement du Rwanda à poursuivre sa coopération avec nous et espérons qu'il respectera ses obligations internationales afin d'engager un dialogue constructif avec le SPT pour nous permettre de reprendre notre visite, y compris pour donner des conseils sur la création d'un mécanisme national de prévention indépendant et efficace dans le pays", a déclaré le chef de la délégation.
La délégation du SPT était composée des membres suivants: M. Arman Danielyan (chef de la délégation - Arménie), Mme Margarete Osterfeld (Allemagne), M. Kosta Mitrovic (Serbie), Mme Zdenka Perovic (Monténégro) et Mme Aneta Stanchevska (Ex-République yougoslave de Macédoine).

FIN


Contexte:
Le Protocole facultatif à la Convention contre la torture et autres peines ou traitements cruels, inhumains ou dégradants a été ratifié à ce jour par 84 pays. Le SPT communique ses recommandations et observations aux États au moyen d'un rapport confidentiel et, le cas échéant, aux mécanismes nationaux de prévention. Le travail du SPT est guidé par les principes de confidentialité et de coopération.
Le SPT est composé de 25 experts indépendants et impartiaux de différentes régions du monde. Pour plus d'informations sur le mandat du sous-comité, veuillez visiter: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/OPCAT/Pages/OPCATIndex.aspx
Tag et partage - Twitter: @UNHumanRights et Facebook: unitednationshumanrights
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/1268-press-release-prevention-torture-un-human-rights-body-suspends-rwanda-visit-citing




Date: 12 October 2017
Title: PRESS RELEASE: UN torture prevention body to visit Rwanda
Content: 12 October 2017
The United Nations Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture (SPT) is due to visit Rwanda from 15 to 21 October 2017 to advise the authorities on the establishment of a national detention monitoring body officially known as the National Prevention Mechanism (NPM).
GENEVA/KIGALI, 12 OCT 2017 - The United Nations Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture (SPT) is due to visit Rwanda from 15 to 21 October to advise the authorities on the establishment of a national detention monitoring body officially known as the National Prevention Mechanism (NPM). The SPT will also assess the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty, as well as the measures taken for their protection against torture and ill-treatment.
“Rwanda ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT) in June 2015 so it is required to set up an independent and sufficiently-resourced monitoring body that has unrestricted access to all places of detention,” said Arman Danielyan who will head the SPT delegation.
Among the places the SPT delegation is due to visit are: prisons, police stations, detention facilities for women as well as juveniles and psychiatric institutions. The experts will also meet high level Government officials, the Judiciary, the National Commission for Human Rights, UN agencies and representatives of civil society.
At the end of the visit, the SPT will submit a confidential report to the Government of Rwanda, containing its observations and recommendations on the establishment of the NPM.
For the SPT, the key to preventing torture and ill-treatment lies in building constructive relations with the State concerned, and its guiding principles are cooperation and confidentiality.
The SPT delegation will comprise the following members: Mr. Arman Danielyan (Head of delegation, Armenia), Ms. Margrete Osterfeld (Germany), Mr. Kosta Mitrovic (Serbia), Ms. Zdenka Perovic (Montenegro) and Ms. Aneta Stanchevska (the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia).

ENDS

Background
The Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment has, to date, been ratified by 84 countries. The SPT communicates its recommendations and observations to States by means of a confidential report and, if necessary, to national preventive mechanisms. The SPT work is guided by the principles of confidentiality and cooperation.
The SPT is composed of 25 independent and impartial experts from different regions of the world. For more information on the mandate of Subcommittee, please visit: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/OPCAT/Pages/OPCATIndex.aspx
Tag and share: Twitter: @UNHumanRights and Facebook: unitednationshumanrights
URL: https://rwanda.un.org/en/1267-press-release-un-torture-prevention-body-visit-rwanda




