Date: 26 January 2024
Title: IOM Upscales Equipment for Enhanced Border Management in Samoa
Content: 26 January 2024
Apia, Samoa – The International Organization for Migration (IOM) handed over on 25 January 2024 a comprehensive set of equipment to the Government of Samoa. Aimed at upgrading the country’s border management system, the package included three sets of database servers with ample data space and high-speed processing capacity, as well as two UPS machines to provide backup power to the servers. The donation is worth 124,000 Samoan Tala (or equivalent of USD 46,000).
Funded by the Government of Japan, IOM Samoa is currently implementing a regional project to assist the Pacific with the socio-economic recovery from the pandemic of COVID-19. With safe resumption of border management operations being the main approach, more integrated and seamless border control systems are therefore urgently needed.
During the handover ceremony, the Ambassador of Japan, HE Mr Keisuke Senta said, “I am happy to see the funding of the equipment for the Border Management System upgrades for Samoa Immigration through IOM has materialized in delivery. The Japanese government values the ongoing relations and supports the safety and prosperity of the Independent State of Samoa”.
With the capability to collect, process, store and analyze traveller information in real time, the upgraded border management system allows the officials to more effectively monitor the persons entering and exiting its territory. Additionally, it provides a sound statistical basis for migration-related policy planning. Apart from improving border control and law enforcement operations, the much-anticipated upgrade is also expected to facilitate the protection of migrants and evidence-based policymaking.
“This hardware is crucial to the implementation phases required for Samoa Immigration to ensure the border management system upgrades are rolled out as planned, especially considering the upcoming Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in October 2024”, says Agafili Tomaimano Shem Leo, Chief Executive Officer of the Ministry of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. He also thanked the Government of Japan for the unwavering support and partnership the both countries have established over the years.
The donated servers will enable the Government of Samoa to handle the large volumes of data currently at hand. Meanwhile, it provides the Government with the sufficient storage capacity to facilitate accumulation of passenger and immigration related data in the years to come.
The upgrade will contribute to achieving the key strategic outcome 3: Security and Trusted Governance identified in the Pathway for the Development of Samoa (2021/22 – 2025/26). It will also help advance the agenda for the Peace and Security Thematic Area of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent.
For more information, please contact Valavala Siaopo Pese, Assistant Chief Executive Officer, Immigration Division, at siaopo.pese@mpmc.gov.ws or Kazumi Nakamura at IOM Samoa Office at knakamura@iom.int.
SDG 10, 16 and 17
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/258872-iom-upscales-equipment-enhanced-border-management-samoa




Date: 04 May 2023
Title: IOM Samoa Launches Project to Strengthen Border Control and Response to Infectious Diseases in Pacific Island Countries
Content: 04 May 2023
“Border management is an imperative component of national security. For Samoa, we are extremely happy to embark on this project, working closely with the IOM to upgrade our border management system,” said Agafili Tomaimano Shem Leo, Chief Executive Officer, Samoa Ministry of Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Apia – Pacific socio-economic recovery from COVID-19 will be strengthened through safe resumption of border management operations and enhanced seamless border management infrastructure technology, equipment, and improved capacity.
As such, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) has launched a project to improve border control capacity and response to infectious diseases in Pacific Island Countries. The Government of Japan has provided over USD 6.9 million to fund the project, which will see IOM working closely with the Pacific Immigration Development Community (PIDC) and the Governments of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, the Kingdom of Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.
Peseta Noumea Simi, Chief Executive Officer, Samoa Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, said “we are a partner, a country, not just a recipient” at the event launch.
At the launch event, Ambassador of Japan to Samoa, Keisuke Senta, said “as the Pacific Immigration Development Community (PIDC) is located in Samoa, we are confident that Samoa will be a hub for this project. We firmly believe that the project will create opportunities for cooperation and exchange among border control authorities as well as to build a stronger sense of regional solidarity and resilience.”
The project also marks the opening of the IOM Country Office in Samoa. IOM is pleased to open the Samoa Country office to better support the Government of Samoa as well as Pacific regional bodies based in Samoa. Across the Pacific region, IOM supports the countries to contribute towards enhanced resilience, governance, and sustainable development in the context of human mobility in the Blue Pacific.
"IOM is committed to supporting Pacific Island Countries in strengthening their capacity to respond to infectious diseases and promote safe and orderly migration in the region. We sincerely thank the Government of Japan for providing the funding for this project and for their ongoing support to Pacific Island Countries.,” said Jacqueline Weekers, IOM Chief of Mission in Australia and coordinator to New Zealand and the Pacific.
On behalf of the United Nations Resident Coordinator, the UNDP Resident Representative, Jorn Sorensen, said “a positive probability of another pandemic dictates the need for a more proactive Pacific approach, not only to ensure mitigation of any future diseases, but also to dampen the potential negative economic fallout on the region”.
Notably, the project also aligns with the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Continent, which will contribute towards building a resilient Pacific Region of peace, harmony, security, social inclusion and prosperity, that ensures all Pacific peoples can lead free, healthy and productive lives.
See also the IOM Pacific Strategy 2022 - 2026 and this video for more information.
For more information, please contact Imogen Nicholls at IOM Australia Country Office with Coordinating Functions for the Pacific at inicholls@iom.int
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/230107-iom-samoa-launches-project-strengthen-border-control-and-response-infectious-diseases




Date: 01 May 2023
Title: Effective partnerships strengthen Births Registration, and Civil Registration & Vital Statistics system in Samoa
Content: 01 May 2023
A partnership between the Samoa Bureau of Statistics (SBS) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has led to the strengthening of the births registration system.
Apia, Samoa – This is reflected in the launch this week of a new report – Strengthening the Birth Registration System in Samoa – which highlights birth registration as a fundamental right, a critical first step for the protection and development of children, yet it remains a challenge for Samoa.
The Report is the result of effective partnerships between SBS, through its Births, Deaths and Marriages (BDM) Division, UNDP through its Accelerator Lab (AccLab), and relevant stakeholders such as the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Women, Community and Social Development, and actors involved in the birth registration process at the community level.
“The Samoa Bureau of Statistics recognizes and acknowledges the need to strengthen the birth registration system in the country. As such, birth registration is part of a wider civil registration system that includes the free and universal recording of the occurrence and characteristics of key events – births, deaths, adoptions, marriages, and divorces – and other civil status events pertaining to the population,” said Leota Laki Lamositele Sio, Minister of Statistics.
“In Samoa, every person has a right to a name that connects to the land and matai titles – their fa’asinomaga. The registration of birth protects and instills that right and identity, which enables entitlement to health, education, sports, employment opportunities and many other social and economic benefits. A child’s birth certificate is the primary identity to all social and economic entitlements.”
The Report provides a comprehensive analysis of the current situation, identifies gaps and opportunities, and proposes innovative and concrete recommendations like using collective intelligence, and leveraging technology and a whole-of-government collaboration across sectors to improve birth registration in Samoa.
“Birth registration and related information are key in ensuring effective development planning which benefits all, especially in a country like Samoa, which remains increasingly vulnerable to disasters. We hope this Report will serve as a valuable resource for policymakers, practitioners, and advocates working towards ensuring that every child in Samoa is registered and has access to their fundamental rights,” said Jorn Sorensen, UNDP Resident Representative.
Based on the success of the initial partnership, SBS and UNDP are continuing to the second phase of this initiative, partnering with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), supported by the Government of New Zealand, to boost the Civil Registration and Vital Statistics (CRVS) system in Samoa.
“The right to identity is enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Samoa ratified in 1994. However, recent estimates by UNDP and UNICEF put the current birth registration rate in Samoa between 60 to 66%, yet more than 99% of children are delivered by a skilled birth attendant, which is quite alarming. We believe that through our revitalized and concerted effort, we can do better,” said Dr. Annefrida Kisesa-Mkusa, UNICEF Chief, Pacific Samoa Field Office.
Through participatory design approaches, the team will test and create a prototype of inclusive technologies in CRVS that have the potential to enhance public service delivery. They will also jointly work to revitalize a gender-responsive CRVS committee, co-facilitate policy dialogues and advocacy for open-source tools and open data to build responsive institutions, efficient public services and ensure citizen participation for inclusive development.
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/229632-effective-partnerships-strengthen-births-registration-and-civil-registration-vital




Date: 27 April 2023
Title: UNDP Samoa Accelerator Lab wins global Japan SDG Innovation Challenge
Content: 27 April 2023
Samoa and Zimbabwe are the only AccLabs selected from a pool of 91 UNDP AccLabs across the world for the Japan SDG Innovation Challenge.
Apia, Samoa – In a first for Samoa, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Accelerator Lab (AccLab) has won one, of only two spots, for the Japan SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Innovation Challenge. Samoa and Zimbabwe are the only AccLabs selected from a pool of 91 UNDP AccLabs across the world. The Challenge will enable the UNDP Samoa AccLab to implement an innovative project to convert fish skin into sustainable fish leather.
This project aims to maximize the economic benefits of the entire fish caught, instead of just the flesh whilst discarding other fish parts, thus lending the project its name: “100% Fish Use”. The fish leather will be manufactured through a sustainable process. The eco-friendly fish leather is an exotic leather and will be an addition to the existing Samoan handicrafts/products such as wallets, business card holders and other items, popular as souvenirs. There is also a huge demand for fish leather overseas and this has the potential to increase additional avenues for export.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) AccLab is partnering with Think Sea Corp, a Japanese company, to implement this project through funding from the Japan Cabinet Office (CAO). This Challenge is facilitated by the Japan Innovation Network. The contract between UNDP Samoa and Think Sea Corps was signed in March 2023 and the project is now ready for implementation.
“Over 40 to 60% of the caught fish is currently being dumped or underused. Furthermore, there is very little data on the amount of fish waste generated in Samoa. This project, in addition to assigning economic value to fish waste, will also boost the data on fish waste,” said Jorn Sorensen, Resident Representative, UNDP Samoa.
The founders of the Think Sea Corp will spend two months in Samoa to experiment with the fish skin type available locally and create samples of leather. They will also train the target communities on the low-cost process of leather production, enabling communities to take up new entrepreneurial opportunities of producing, utilizing, and selling fish leather.
"We are thrilled to embark on this project to contribute to the protection of the marine environment and sustainable development with the team at UNDP Samoa. As awareness of the importance of marine conservation continues to grow, we take great pride in being able to support sustainable economic development while making use of ocean resources. Through this project, we hope to make valuable contributions to the local communities by leveraging our respective expertise and skills to pursue meaningful impact,” said Tomohisa Noguchi, Founder, Think Sea Corp.
The 100% Fish Use project is a critical milestone for Samoa not only in terms of expanding the blue economy, but also a successful example of connecting technology and innovation from the private sector to local contexts, accelerating progress on the SDGs.

-ENDS-
For media queries, please contact:
Tomohisa Noguchi, Think Sea Corp, totoleather@gmail.com, https://www.tototoleather.com/en
Laufaleaina Lesa, UNDP Multi Country Office, Samoa|Tel. +685 23670|E: laufaleaina.lesa@undp.org
www.ws.undp.org   @UNDP in Samoa, Cook Islands, Tokelau & Niue   @undpsamoa

One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/229082-undp-samoa-accelerator-lab-wins-global-japan-sdg-innovation-challenge




Date: 29 March 2023
Title: The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations supports Samoa to better plan, predict and respond to food system crisis.
Content: 29 March 2023
A small handover ceremony was held between Samoa’s Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations to acknowledge both the physical and technical support from FAO to combat rising commodity prices that affect Samoa’s national food systems.
As part of FAO’s and World Food Programme (WFP) joint project “5F Crisis” that monitors the rising cost of food, fuel, fertilizer, animal feed and certain finance statistics which aims to support participating governments in increasing their technical capacity to analyse, predict, plan and respond to the impacts of the global crisis of food, energy and finance on their national food systems.
FAO has developed the 5F Light Early Warning System (LEWS), which aids in this effort based on economic statistics such as the Consumer Price Index and key lead indicators such as the cost of fuel and animal feed and their impacts on food costs. The system helps countries better predict economic shocks, thus enabling more informed policy-making by governments in the region. FAO has trained representatives from the MAF Policy Division on the adoption of LEWS and handed over the matrix of indicators to ensure continuous monitoring of the 5Fs.
In addition, FAO also provided short-term physical assistance to MAF including laptops and tablets for monitoring the ongoing 5F crisis among MAF divisions, barbwire fencing for non-commercial cattle farmers, and vegetable seeds and local planting material for rural food security. These items will be distributed by MAF to communities at a later date.
FAO has provided similar training and physical support to the other nine participating countries in the region; Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Niue, Nauru, Palau, Solomon Islands and Tuvalu. FAO will continue capacity-building efforts with national governments around the region as they take over key 5F monitoring infrastructure that FAO has created.
“One of the strongest influences on the cost of food is the cost of fuel. Through this LEWS training, governments around the region now have a better understanding of how, and how soon, global fuel prices affect local petrol prices, and how and when petrol prices affect the cost of food. Similar forecasts can be made with other indicators such as the cost of fertilizer and animal feed as well as trends in remittances. Taken as a whole, LEWS is an effective tool for more informed policy-making by national governments”, said FAO Subregional Coordinator for the Pacific Islands, Ms. Xiangjun Yao.
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/225396-food-and-agriculture-organization-fao-united-nations-supports-samoa-better-plan-predict-and




Date: 15 March 2023
Title: WOMEN IN FISHERIES FORUM TAKES PLACE IN FIJI: WOMEN'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BLUE ECONOMY HIGHLIGHTED
Content: 15 March 2023
14 March 2023, Suva – Fiji’s Women in Fisheries Network (WiFN), in collaboration with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the Pacific Community (SPC), organized the 3rd Women in Fisheries Forum on 13-14 March 2023 at Holiday Inn hotel in Suva, Fiji. This year's theme "Embracing equity" was timely as the world celebrated International Women's Day on 8th March 2023. The forum aimed at highlighting women's contributions to the blue economy and the challenges they face, as well as providing a platform for exchange and learning between fisheries practitioners, researchers, and fisherwomen.
The Forum gathered more than 80 participants from relevant government agencies; civil society organizations, non-government and faith-based organizations; regional organizations, fisherwomen associations, academic institutions and other entities that play a relevant role in the discourse of gender and fisheries in Fiji. The event featured discussions, presentations, and networking opportunities aimed at identifying the needs and concerns of fisherwomen and advocating for their rights and continued empowerment.
While opening the Forum, Mrs Atelaite Rokosuka, Acting Permanent Secretary for the Ministry of  Fisheries and Forestry of Fiji, noted: “It is indeed timely that we convene and meet over the next two days. Such forums are crucial meetings to have because they give us all a chance to connect, stay informed, and talk about ways we can collaborate and support one another in the vital roles we each play in our communities and organizations.”
The Forum seeks to enhance the current conversation by creating a continuous platform for exchange, learning, and sharing. Its primary goal is to provide fisherwomen and women fish workers with a voice to express their concerns and needs to policy makers and development partners. Moreover, the Forum aims to facilitate fisheries practitioners and researchers in learning from the target audience, which can help increase awareness and knowledge of gender issues in the fisheries domain. This, in turn, can advance gender debates in the fisheries sector and allow governments to fulfil their overarching commitment to promote gender equity and equality throughout the entire government. Lastly, the Forum seeks to strengthen collaborations among agencies operating in the fisheries and gender space, with a focus on increasing partnerships, interdisciplinary work, and an improved understanding of gender issues in the fisheries sector from different perspectives.
Anne-Maree Schwarz, FAO SAP Gender Specialist stressed the importance of the Forum in promoting women's empowerment and gender equality in the fisheries sector: "Women play a crucial role in the blue economy and their contributions should be recognized, valued, and supported. The National Women in Fisheries Forum provides a platform to discuss the challenges that women fisherfolks face and to find solutions that promote their rights and well-being."
The Forum discussed four main themes. The first theme "Joining Men at the Blue Economy Table – Let's Boost Equity for a Sustainable Future" highlighted the need to address gender disparities in the fisheries sector and to ensure women's fuller participation in the blue economy. The second theme "Valuing Fisher Women's Indigenous Knowledge and Resource Management Practices for Community and National Well-being" emphasized the need to recognize and promote the unique knowledge and practices of fisherwomen in managing and conserving marine resources. The third theme "Challenging Governance Structures – Let's Hear It from the Women Fishers and Fish Workers" focused on the importance of gender-responsive governance in fisheries and the need to involve fisherwomen and women fish workers in decision-making processes. The fourth theme "Pandemics, Disasters, and Shocks: Women Leading the Way with Resilience and Innovation" showcased women's resilience and innovation in coping with crises such as pandemics and natural disasters, and associated economic shocks.
Unrecognized potential
People across the Pacific Islands region rely heavily on various fisheries to provide nutrition, employment, and economic growth. Coastal fisheries contribute approximately 50 percent of the total fisheries contribution in the Pacific Islands region. With human populations increasing, achieving proper management and governance of coastal fisheries becomes critical, particularly with the impacts of decreasing production of fish due to climate change, natural disasters and economic incentives. Women and men are actively involved in subsistence and income-generating activities along the coastal fisheries value chain. Women traditionally confined their fishing activities to coastal areas, primarily harvesting (e.g., reef gleaning), seafood processing, and food preparation for home consumption. However, women are now increasingly participating in economic opportunities such as marketing or small businesses that involve the harvesting capture and sale of marine resources. Unfortunately, the role of women in fisheries is often unrecognized, undocumented, or poorly understood, leading to their overall poor engagement in fishing activities and decision-making processes in coastal fisheries management.
"Empowering women in fisheries is not only a matter of gender equality but also a smart investment in sustainable development and food security for the whole community." – noted Mrs Xiangjun Yao, FAO Subregional Coordinator for the Pacific Islands.
Building on previous discussions
The Forum’s discussion program was built on the outcomes of the second national Women in Fisheries Forum which was held in December 2018 under the theme “Rethinking Women in Fisheries Network –Fiji.” Among the challenges identified in 2018, were the lack of disaggregated data and absent data collection systems, poor collaboration between key agencies and the ever-existing lack of recognition of the vast contributions of Fijian women fishers, post-harvesters and market sellers for food, livelihoods and wellbeing.
FAO’s contribution
FAO’s participation was organized under the Strengthening Small Scale Fisheries in the Pacific (Canadapt 003) project, funded by Global Affairs Canada and implemented by FAO, which aims to improve the resilience of coastal communities in Fiji, Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu. The project, aligned with regional commitments and FAO's strategic objectives, focuses on improving the management and governance of coastal fisheries, with a specific emphasis on gender equity. Canadapt 003 activities are designed in partnership with national fisheries agencies in each country and fall under three project outcomes, with intermediate gender outcomes identified in the project's gender strategy. The project involves partnerships with various organizations and stakeholders to align activities with related small-scale fisheries projects and enhance gender-sensitive approaches.
Contacts
Maryia Kukharava
International Communications Specialist
FAO Subregional Office for the Pacific
maryia.kukharava@fao.org
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/223184-women-fisheries-forum-takes-place-fiji-womens-contributions-blue-economy-highlighted




Date: 01 August 2022
Title: Timely support given to honey production in Samoa.
Content: 01 August 2022
Local bee keepers receive financial support to maximize efforts towards honey production in Samoa.

Apia, Samoa – The recently formed Samoa Apiculture Organization (SAO), is the recipient of a financial grant of US$100,000 from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Global Environment Facility Small Grants Programme (GEF-SGP).
The grant will go towards improving the understanding and knowledge of apiculture, capacity development and training of local beekeepers to strengthen knowledge and skills in beekeeping to realize better beekeeping practices and greater production. This in turn will assist in improving the capacity of locally-trained and available expertise on-island to create a sustainable apiculture industry in Samoa.
An inception workshop was held on Wednesday this week to sign a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the organization and the UNDP GEF-SGP, making official the grant handover.
“In light of the global pandemic and everything happening around the world currently, it is imperative that we continue to keep our eye on the environment and climate change. We need to continue to be vigilant in our quest for the protection of our natural heritage, especially in our vulnerable communities. Resilience is built when we build up those who are most at risk. This is where the SGP comes in, and why we are always excited about the work SGP does, working directly with local communities to promote actions and initiatives that benefit vulnerable populations and support efforts on sustainable development. This boost to the local apiculture industry is a great example of this,” said Jorn Sorensen, Resident Representative, UNDP Samoa.
SAO currently has more than 40 financial members, with 57% of the membership being women, who are either farmers, growers, hobbyists, or commercial beekeepers.
According to recently sourced data, Samoa has approximately 400 active hives. Previously, there had been no consistent beekeeping data collection that had been shared within the industry. Data collection for the apiculture industry is a priority area that SAO aims to address by implementing proper data collection and management systems for the organization and its membership.
“I wish to acknowledge and thank the UNDP Resident Representative, Jorn Sorensen, the GEF SGP National Steering Committee Chair, Nynette Sass, and the National Coordinator, Lilomaiava Filifilia Iosefa, for giving SAO this opportunity. It is important for us to work diligently within our mandate of establishing, maintaining, and improving the apiculture and beekeeping industry in Samoa and we can only achieve this through these types of funding opportunities and building sustainable long-term partnerships and relationships with government and the community,” said Richard Wetzell, SAO President.
Key stakeholder partnerships are a priority for SAO for the successful rolling out of the apiculture projects.  Establishing partnerships with established commercial beekeepers and their apiaries is key for SAO, as well as the important partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries towards the establishment of a Community Apiculture Resource and Learning Centre for the future.
Since its establishment in Samoa in 2003, SGP has supported environment-related programmes, delivering an estimated US$5.2 million dollars for 266 small grant projects on climate knowledge and advocacy, capacity building, financing, technology transfer, adaptation and mitigation.
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/193007-timely-support-given-honey-production-samoa




Date: 26 July 2022
Title: FAO Subregional Office for the Pacific launches its 2021 Annual Report
Content: 26 July 2022
FAO Subregional Office for the Pacific with its key national partner Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries together with several partners officiated the launching of its Annual Report 2021
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Subregional Office for the Pacific Islands launched its 2021 Annual Report on 15 July 2022. The report was launched at the official launching ceremony that took place online and physically in Apia, Samoa and Port Villa, Vanuatu. Ministers from the Government of Samoa and Vanuatu, Ambassadors of China and Japan, three UN Resident Coordinators from the Pacific, together with government stakeholders from Samoa and across the Pacific, the private sector, UN agencies and donor partners were all in attendance to witness the launching.
The newly launched report presents the results that FAO-led projects and programmes contributed to the timely and effective joint response by FAO as part of the United Nations family, governments and other partners under various thematic clusters including climate change, emergencies, fisheries and aquaculture. It also looks at longer-term gains made in forestry, livestock, and nutrition and food safety work and highlights how statistics and policy programmes supported key data, reporting, planning and decision-making, including assisting several nations to develop various national censuses. Several 2021 success stories were shared, including the SIDS Solutions Forum co-organized by FAO, Fiji, and ITU in August 2021 as well as the launch of the first-ever Virtual Learning Centre for the Pacific Islands region.
To launch the report was Ms Xiangjun Yao, FAO Subregional Coordinator for the Pacific Islands. She thanked the Pacific Governments for the excellent coordination and cooperation throughout the 26 years of the Office’s existence: “All of these achievements would not have been possible without the continued support and trust of our resource, technical and development partners. We are proud to serve the governments and people of the Pacific countries. Thank you for your trust and support, I sincerely hope that our collaboration will only strengthen the future for the benefit of all.” Ms Yao also thanked the Government of Samoa for hosting the FAO Pacific Office in its capital, Apia.
At the Ministerial segment of the event, Hon. Minister of Agriculture for Samoa, Laauli Leuatea Polataivao Fosi spoke on the SIDS Solutions Forum that FAO and Samoa Co-hosted in August 2021. He stated that, “this was an important activity for our partnership because it happened during the peak of the COVID-19 crisis. But more importantly, it allowed our collective Pacific commitment to share the world of locally creative innovation and creativity and how can we collaborate creatively to enhance the achievements of the SDGs”. He also
highlighted in his speech how thankful he is with the partnership and collaboration the Ministry and FAO have for 26 years now and grateful for the opportunities from FAO through all the years.
Other guest speakers and guests consisted of Hon. Toelupe Poumulinuku Onesemo, the Minister for Communications and Information Technology. Hon. Silas Bule Melve, the Minister of Climate Change, Vanuatu; H.E Mr Senta Keisuke, the Ambassador of Japan in Samoa; H.E. Mr Chao Xiaoliang, the Ambassador of China in Samoa; Mrs Temarama Anguna – Kamana, Head of the Ministry of Agriculture, Cook Islands; and Ms Fiona Lynn, Director, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT), Australia - all of whom acknowledged FAO for the successful work that has been done in 2021 and way forward.
The event was enriched by thought-provoking statements from three UN Resident Coordinators in the Pacific discussing the challenges and issues across the region. Mr Sanaka Samarasinha, UN Resident Coordinator in Fiji, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu emphasized the work that FAO is doing in advancing the national food systems transformation agendas: “The approach to food has to change; from seeing food as a commodity to looking at systems. The work that FAO, along with UN agencies, did to support the countries across the Pacific in preparation for the 2021 UN Food Systems Summit is seminal”.
Ms Simona Marinescu, UN Resident Coordinator in Cook Islands, Niue, Samoa, and Tokelau stated that the Annual report of FAO, like any other report of the United Nations, follows accountability roles in the organization and presents results that are accompanied by very high-quality evidence. Simona thanked Ms Yao for her leadership in 2021 and congratulated her and the team for all their achievements.
Finally, Mr Jaap van Hierden UN Resident Coordinator in Palau, Federated States of Micronesia, Marshall Islands, Nauru and Kiribati noted that “It will be a challenge to tackle the high dependency on food imports […] and prices that are becoming more and more expensive due to the turbulences in the food, energy and financial sectors caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine. I am pleased to note that FAO together with other UN agencies is committed to supporting their governments in addressing these complex challenges. FAO has provided crucial support to those small island countries in the Pacific and will scale up its engagement within the broader UN Pacific Cooperation Framework.”
The event ended with closing remarks by Mr Takayuki Hagiwara, Regional Programme Leader, talking on behalf of the Assistant Director-General and Regional Representative for FAO Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific. “The hallmark of FAO work in the Pacific during the coming years will focus on the partnerships and collaboration with a particular reference to the feedback provided over this annual report, which is most useful and appreciated”.
FAO has also reflected on the future of its support to the governments and peoples of the Pacific. Ms Yao showcased a series of upcoming projects around the Pacific to support the development and sustainable management of projects linked to promoting healthy food environments, accelerating digital agriculture transformation, improving environmental health, strengthening transboundary animal diseases (TADs) preparedness and response, supporting family farming etc.
By analyzing the past success and challenges and reflecting on future opportunities, FAO is excited to strengthen technical and resources partnership and scale up its support achieve better production, better nutrition, a better environment and a better life in the Pacific, leaving no one behind
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/191964-fao-subregional-office-pacific-launches-its-2021-annual-report




Date: 20 July 2022
Title: New partnership signed to enhance local research.
Content: 20 July 2022
"As a local research organization, SROS strives to support Samoa's natural capital and ecosystem services to inform and improve policy and management efforts." Seuseu Joseph Tauati, CEO of SROS.
The Scientific Research Organization of Samoa (SROS) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) have signed an agreement for the partnership to support local research in Samoa. This partnership is a result of the UN Joint Programme on Ecosystem Services Building Forward Better by Safeguarding Natural Capital and Ecosystem Services (commonly called, UNJP on Ecosystem Services). The UNJP on Ecosystem Services is supporting the development of policy and planning, collection of data and valuation of ecosystem services to support the development of scenarios for the future, reporting against sustainable development goals (SDGs) 11-15, and building a case for investment in ecosystem services. The ecosystem services are central to human wellbeing, which are critical for the realization of SDGs 1 to 3. The UNJP on Ecosystem Services is a joint initiative of the United Nations’ Joint SDG Fund and the Government of Samoa. It is led by UNESCO with UNEP and UNESCAP as the participating UN organizations and SPREP as the regional partner. The national implementing partners are the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (MNRE) and SROS. The partnership with SROS brings WST 160700.80 in phase 1 and would add WST 77,951.00 in the planned phase 2 involving actions on research findings. Additionally, the cooperation will bring scientific capacity development to the key staff of SROS and the development of guidelines of policy around bioethics.
Seuseu Tauati, PhD, Chief Executive Officer of SROS acknowledged the importance of the partnership in light of the work to be undertaken by SROS in the coming months: “SROS is grateful to the Joint SGD Fund for supporting this project. As a local research organization, SROS strives to support Samoa's natural capital and ecosystem services to inform and improve policy and management efforts. We are excited and looking forward to implementing this project to save our ecosystems.” Acknowledging challenges to the realization of the ambitions of various global and regional conventions on biodiversity from climate change, erosion of the ecosystems and inadequate attention to culture and traditional knowledge, and currently, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Nisha, Director of the Office and UNESCO Representative to the Pacific States, stated: “UNESCO through its work on biodiversity promotes integration between conservation, learning and sustainable development to offer solutions to challenges we face locally and globally. This partnership is a step towards making sure that natural assets, including traditional knowledge, are valued, protected and used sustainably.” The UNJP on Ecosystem Services is planned as Samoa’s contribution to the two highly relevant UN decades: UN Decade of Ecosystem Restoration 2021-2030 and the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development 2021-2030. Through this partnership, UNESCO and SROS re-confirmed their commitment to long-lasting cooperation for positive and widespread impacts, stemming from technical work under the UNJP on Ecosystem Services.
About Joint SDG Fund
The Joint SDG Fund is a multi-partner trust fund. This means contributions it receives are not entity specific, but aim to support broader UN system-level functions. In this way, it differs from restrictive earmarked funding which can fuel competition and hamper cooperation among UN entities. This type of pooled funding used by multi-partners trust funds, like the Joint SDG Fund is widely considered ‘multilateralism-friendly’ – and is much more suitable for the integrated support at scale essential for achieving the 2030 Agenda. The current contributors to the Joint SDG Fund are Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Monaco, Norway, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Spain, Sweden, the European Commission, the Kingdom of Netherlands and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation.
About SROS
The Government of Samoa established the Scientific Research Organization of Samoa (SROS) in 2006 to promote research and innovation by scientists for sustainable economic growth. SROS works to support the development of the private sector by establishing through research optimal use of locally available natural resources of Samoa. SROS implements and supports the Government of Samoa’s national development strategy by providing research, training, and analysis needed for sound decision-making. SROS also plays an important role in delivering trusted and efficient services to businesses. SROS attempts to meet scientific research needs across government and maintains strong relationships with local businesses, the science community, and its clients.
About UNESCO
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations (UN) aimed at promoting world peace and security through international cooperation in education, natural sciences, social and human sciences, culture and communication and information. In cooperation with 193 Member States and 11 Associate Members, and partners in academia and research organizations, non- and inter-governmental organizations and the private sector, UNESCO has its imprint on the world through norms and standards in education, culture, sciences and communications, the World Heritage Sites, Biosphere Reserves, and supports national economies, environment, local culture and resilient communities. The Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO (IOC-UNESCO) is the United Nations Commission responsible for supporting global ocean science and services created under the auspices of UNESCO. The UNESCO Office for the Pacific States implements UNESCO’s mandate among sixteen Member States and an Associate Member in the Pacific: Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands (Republic of), Micronesia (Federated States of), Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau (Associate), Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.
For further details Toleafoa Annie Tuisuga, Manager, Environment and Renewable Energy Division, SROS annie.tuisuga@srosmanagement.org.ws Office for the Director, UNESCO Office for the Pacific States apia@unesco.org
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/191038-new-partnership-signed-enhance-local-research




Date: 18 January 2022
Title: Samoa launched digital library.
Content: 18 January 2022
The Digital Library is part of the Samoa Knowledge Society Initiative (SKSI), which is collectively funded by the India South-South Cooperation, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and UNDP.
Apia Samoa | The National University of Samoa (NUS), in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), launched the national Samoa Digital Library (SADIL) Project on Monday 17th of January 2022, at the NUS Fale Samoa. The Digital Library is part of the Samoa Knowledge Society Initiative (SKSI), which is collectively funded by the India South-South Cooperation, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and UNDP.
SKSI is a rights-based initiative that acknowledges the right to access to information by all Samoans, contributing towards an enabling environment for enhanced digital development. The initiative also aims to produce a user-friendly localized knowledge e-platform, providing access to full text, bibliographical and institutional information from Samoa and international sources that are openly licensed. An objective of this initiative is the establishment of a knowledge platform that comprises two repositories (the Lifelong Learning Lab and the Research repository) and a digital library.
“The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a heavy reliance on online technology for working and learning. Hence the digital library is timely with its wealth of digital resources – providing online access to information for work, for education and for use in our daily lives. Knowledge is power. Therefore, access to quality information empowers people to make the right choices and the right decisions, hence ensuring an empowered knowledge-based society,” said the Minister of Education, Sports and Culture, Seuula Ioane Tua’au.
In addition, the national digital library aims to increase access to bibliographic and institutional information from Samoa in English and Samoan. The development of the multilingual interface of the digital library was carried out by national consultant, Mose Mose.
The project is now complete, and the launch ceremony yesterday also served as the official handover of the National Digital Library to the National University of Samoa to administer through its Learning Resource Centre (NUS Library) on behalf of all of Samoa. The Digital Library currently has numerous electronic resources on Samoa mainly from NUS.
Both key donors, India and the United Nations reaffirmed their commitment to the development of inclusive knowledge societies in Samoa.
“India, as a partner and true friend, would like to extend a helping hand to Samoa towards its socio-economic development. I would be very happy to engage with the Ministry of Education and see how we can work together in the areas of education, e-learning, capacity-building and human resource development,” said India’s High Commissioner to Samoa, Muktesh K. Pardeshi, who joined the launch virtually.
“The future of learning, like most facets of our society nowadays, is digital. We need to move with the times. A key part of this digital transformation is digital libraries, as we have seen here today. Digital libraries ensure continuity and availability of information regardless of the circumstances. As the pandemic continues to evolve, presenting multi-faceted challenges, we must also respond accordingly. Digital libraries have emerged as vital pathways to high-quality educational content ensuring all Samoans can access information freely and learn without disruptions, regardless of current limitations,” said the United Nations Resident Coordinator, Simona Marinescu.
The Project Team and Management acknowledged the significant contribution of enriching electronic historical and archaeological records on Samoa from the NUS Centre of Samoan Studies. The Digital Library also contains resources from external libraries such as the United Nations Digital Library. The Digital Library in the near future will also contain resources from the Government Ministries and will be linked directly to the Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture’s Lifelong Learning Platform.
More information about the digital library can be found at: https://samoaksi.ws/
ENDS
Media Contacts:
NUS:
Eric Clem Groves, Manager Planning: e.groves@nus.edu.ws
UNDP:
Laufaleaina Lesa
Communications Analyst: laufaleaina.lesa@undp.org

One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/168384-samoa-launched-digital-library




Date: 08 April 2021
Title: MEDIA ALERT: The United Nations presence during Election Day
Content: 08 April 2021
The United Nations Resident Coordinator in Samoa has reiterated the role of the UN in Samoa's upcoming election.

Simona Marinescu, United Nations Resident Coordinator for Samoa, Cook Islands, Niue and Tokelau will be available to the media during Election Day. She can be reached directly on:
The United Nations in Samoa will not act as an official observer during the 9 April 2021 elections. The position of the United Nations in national elections in general is objective, impartial, neutral and independent, and guided by the principles of national sovereignty and ownership.
Free and fair elections are the expression of respect for human rights and dignity, and the cornerstone of democratic governance and human development.
The role of the UN Resident Coordinator on Election Day includes having a presence on the ground to get a general sense as to how polling is going, and to receive updates on the voting process for internal reporting purposes.
The United Nations Country Team is confident that the 2021 elections will unfold peacefully and will lead to a positive outcome for the people of Samoa.

-ends-
For further information:
One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/124248-media-alert-united-nations-presence-during-election-day




Date: 01 May 2020
Title: Press Freedom and Disinformation during the COVID-19 crisis, flagship event of World Press Freedom Day 2020
Content: 01 May 2020
Every year on 3 May, the world comes together to celebrate the fundamental principles of press freedom, take stock of freedom of expression around the world, and pay tribute to journalists who have faced attacks or lost their lives in the exercise of their profession. World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in 1993 on the Recommendation  of UNESCO's General Conference.
Paris, 30 April—On the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, celebrated every year on 3 May, UNESCO and its Director-General, Audrey Azoulay, will host an online discussion on the importance of free media in providing the public with reliable independent information, vital in times of crisis. The High-level Dialogue on Press Freedom and Tackling Disinformation in the COVID-19 context, will be streamed online on Monday 4 May, 5pm Central European Time (GMT +2).
UNESCO’s flagship event of World Press Freedom Day will bring together UN Secretary-General António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, journalist Younes Mujahid, President of the International Federation of Journalists, Maria Ressa, investigative journalist from the Philippines, founder of the Rappler news website, and the Secretary General of Reporters Without Borders, Christophe Deloire, alongside a number of other high level participants. Prominent Mexican-born American journalist Jorge Ramos will moderate the debate.
The debate will address the danger of what the UN Secretary-General has described as the “dangerous epidemic of misinformation.” It will advocate the need for a free press in countering disinformation which is putting lives at risk and undermining the response to the COVID-19 pandemic by promoting false cures, conspiracy theories and myths.
The debate will follow the launch on 3 May of a global UNESCO media campaign called FACTS which highlights the role of free and independent media in the context of COVID-19. Leading media organizations around the world are joining the campaign, developed by award-winning communication agency DDB.
On this Occasion, UNESCO will also present latest data from its 2020 World Trends Report on Media Independence and press freedom in times of COVID-19, to be launched on 5 May. Examining the information landscape during the pandemic, the report points to research showing that nearly 42 % of over 178 million tweets related to COVID-19 were produced by bots, and that 40% of these messages were unreliable (the report will be made available here: http://en.unesco.org/commemorations/worldpressfreedomday)..
“ Information is a fundamental right. In times of COVID-19, Information can save lives. I wish to pay tribute to journalists, women and men who commit and take risks to keep us informed,” said the Director-General of UNESCO. “Their work is more important than ever, as they help members of the public know how to act and governments to take informed decisions,” she added.

One UN House,
SIDS Street, Tuanaimato
Apia, SAMOA
URL: https://samoa.un.org/en/43865-press-freedom-and-disinformation-during-covid-19-crisis-flagship-event-world-press-freedom




