Date: 03 April 2024
Title: Delivering Stronger, UNited for People, Prosperity and Planet
Content: 03 April 2024
United Nations Country Team Retreat for Mauritius & Seychelles
April 03, 2024: The United Nations Country Team (UNCT) for Mauritius and Seychelles is having their Annual Retreat entitled “Delivering Stronger, UNited for People, Prosperity and Planet” from the 3rd to the 5th of April of 2024 in Mauritius.  Bringing together UN agencies and their partners – Government, private sector and civil society - to strengthen cooperation and identify opportunities for new collaboration. This Retreat 2024 is a chance for shared learning and for enhancing UNCT collective engagement to streamline and focus efforts towards achieving national development priorities and Agenda 2030.
During the Opening Ceremony at Maritim Hotel, Balaclava Ms. Lisa Singh, UN Resident Coordinator for Mauritius and Seychelles highlighted this as a pivotal moment for the UNCT. It marks the first cycle of implementation of the new Cooperation Frameworks for sustainable development signed last year with the governments of each country.  The Resident Coordinator highlighted:
“Given the uniqueness of SIDS, many UN agencies have developed and are developing their SIDS strategy to better address their higher-than-average vulnerabilities to exogenous shocks. We also need to go beyond the small states narrative, for SIDS are more than small islands but large ocean states.”
Hon. Sylvestre Radegonde Minister of Foreign Affairs and Tourism of Seychelles who joined online underlined:
“Through strategic planning and evidence-based approaches…we have the opportunity to affect change for every Seychellois and Mauritian. The loss and damage fund, the multi-dimensional vulnerability index and the outcomes of the forthcoming SIDS4 Conference are tangible steps that will supercharge the breakthroughs needed by us to achieve the shared vision of Agenda 2030 of leaving no one behind.   By analysing our challenges and successes we pave the way for the strategic implementation of this Cooperation Framework.”
In his opening remarks the Hon. Maneesh Gobin Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade of Mauritius and Government of Seychelles emphasized:
“Small Island Nations like Mauritius have unique inherent vulnerabilities which are often overlooked when it comes to resource mobilisation for development.  We need to go beyond the GDP per Capita criteria and rapidly devise a vulnerability index tailored specifically for SIDS which will enable small islands to mobilise the adequate resources needed to address the urgent development challenges and the existential threats posed by climate change. This should be a priority at the forthcoming SIDS4 Conference in Antigua and Barbuda.”
The panel discussions which are being held during the Retreat with representation from across sectors focus conversation on key headlight issues for each pillar of the Cooperation Framework (People, Prosperity, and Planet). They will provide a platform for strategic dialogue to enhance collaboration across the UNCT to collectively deliver on the commitments made in the Cooperation Frameworks for each country.
With less than ten years left to achieve the SDGs, challenges have been clearly identified, and interventions targeted to maximize effectiveness. To that end, the Retreat 2024 for Mauritius will be forward-looking, aiming to catalyse action that is strategic, succinct, adaptable, and results-oriented and which integrates Leave No One Behind (LNOB) as the core unifying principle.

WHEN: Wednesday 03 April – Opening Ceremony @9:30 am & Friday 05 April – Closing Ceremony @12pm
KEY SPEAKERS: UN Resident Coordinator for Mauritius & Seychelles Ms. Lisa Singh; Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade, Hon. Maneesh Gobin Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade of Mauritius  and Hon. Sylvestre Radegonde Minister of Foreign Affairs and Tourism of Seychelles; Mr. Antonio Pedro, Deputy Executive Secretary, UNECA,  Mr. Yacoub El-Hillo, Regional Director DCO Africa.
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/265286-delivering-stronger-united-people-prosperity-and-planet




Date: 19 February 2024
Title: Innovative Approaches to Strategic Planning and Financing for the SDGs
Content: 19 February 2024
Government of Seychelles & United Nations: Promoting Resilience and Inclusion for Seychelles Sustainable Development
Mahe, Seychelles: On the 19th of February 2024 the Government of Seychelles represented by the Minister of Finance, National Planning and Trade, Mr. Naadir Hassaan launched a weeklong workshop for government officials to build their capacity to use ‘Foresight and Systems Thinking for Strategic Planning and Financing for the Sustainable Development Goals’.  The workshop is facilitated by the Office of the United Nations Resident Coordinator for Mauritius and Seychelles in collaboration with United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA) and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR).

The Government of Seychelles has identified strategic foresight and systems thinking[1] as two innovative approaches that can help make the most of limited resources and support the necessary investment to build the country’s resilience, from energy transition to climate action to economic transformation, while strengthening the social contract, the education and health systems. Twenty-three representatives from the Ministry of Finance, National Planning and Trade were trained in early February by the United Nations Resident Coordinator’s Office, UNITAR and UNDESA to form a pool of ‘trainer of trainers’ in strategic foresight and systems thinking that will sustain the knowledge transfer in the future. It is these ‘trainer of trainers’ this week who will work in partnership with the UN to build the capacity of 220 policy makers (PSs, CEOs, Finance Officers) from 87 public entities in these innovative approaches. Following the workshop foresight and systems thinking will be integrated in the strategic analysis and prioritization that informs sectoral plans and the budget process in Seychelles.

In his speech for the occasion, Minister Hassan highlighted the importance of this workshop, given the government’s mission to enhance and boost the capacity of public servants to ensure a higher level of service delivery to the general population. “We gather with a shared vision to reinvigorate and refine our internal policies and coordination strategies, aligning them with the priorities of the National Development Strategy and Sustainable Development Goals. This workshop is not just a formality; it is a commitment to empower officials from line Ministries, equipping them with the skills to navigate the intricacies of planning and budgeting."
"By embracing systems thinking and strategic foresight, our aim is to fortify collaboration across Ministries for more effective resource allocation and short- to long-term planning. Let’s not see this just as a gathering of individuals; it is a convergence of minds committed to catalyzing positive change.”
In this way, it is anticipated that embracing systems thinking and strategic foresight will contribute to a more efficient and coherent framework where public finances flow in the same direction avoiding duplication. Importantly, emerging opportunities and risks will be integrated to address the swiftly evolving regional and global development landscape that impact on the citizens of Seychelles.

Find out more here.

[1] Strategic foresight is a “Structured and explicit exploration of multiple futures in order to inform decision making”. Systems thinking focuses on the relationships between the different elements of a system from various dimensions (sectors, levels, space, time), and the perspective of actors (individuals, institutions, collectives), identifying the trade-offs and synergies that form together the political economy of a system. By doing so, Systems Thinking enhances financing targeting efficiencies, reduces transactions costs, and ensures intersectoral coordination and multistakeholder buy-in.

Media Contacts:
Ministry of Finance – Lindy Vital | + (248) 4 382005 | lindy.vital@finance.gov.sc
UN RCO – Janee Connery | + (230) 55009908 | jeshta.connery@un.org

rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/261018-innovative-approaches-strategic-planning-and-financing-sdgs




Date: 24 July 2023
Title: Consultations open in Mauritius ahead of the first major international conference on Small Island Developing States since the pandemic
Content: 24 July 2023
Spotlight is on assessing development progress and proposing new solutions for small island nations of Atlantic and Indian Oceans and South China Sea

Port Louis, Mauritius – 24 July: Consultations for the first major international conference on Small Island Developing States (SIDS) since the global pandemic opens in Port Louis, Mauritius on July 24.

At the meeting, the small island nations of the Atlantic, Indian Ocean and South China Sea (AIS) will meet with international partners to review sustainable development progress and propose new partnerships and solutions in advance of the Fourth International Conference on Small Island Developing States in Antigua and Barbuda in 2024.

SIDS are in the crossfires of multiple crises: climate change, inequality and the economic and social repercussions of COVID-19, especially related to debt. COVID-19 hugely impacted all SIDS, especially the collapse in tourism that left large holes in coffers and severely set back efforts to invest in the Sustainable Development Goals, including climate action.

“Small Island Developing States are in the midst of a global crisis,” said Hon. Alan Ganoo, Minister of Land Transport and Light Rail, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade of Mauritius. He continued, “We must send a collective message reaffirming our determination to address the complex challenges that we face.”

The eight AIS countries—Cabo Verde, Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritius, Maldives, Seychelles, São Tomé e Príncipe, and Singapore—represent significant differences in exposure to climate change, natural hazards, and global markets. Since independence, some have developed strong economies, but their size and geographies leave them vulnerable to economic and ecological shocks.

Climate-related disasters such as severe storms, floods, and drought have almost doubled over the last 20 years, and they affect SIDS like no other countries. In a sudden-onset disaster, SIDS can lose everything overnight.

SIDS are responsible for only 0.2 per cent of global carbon emissions and yet suffer most from the impacts of climate change. The constant cycle of disaster and recovery leaves them weakened and unable to build resilience.

“The eight SIDS spread between the Atlantic and Indian Oceans and the South China Sea are as diverse as communities can be,” said Li Jinhua, United Nations Under-Secretary General for Economic and Social Affairs, and Secretary-General of the 2024 SIDS Conference. “The United Nations is committed to supporting these islands in their quest for a more resilient and sustainable future. They may be geographically remote, but their problems are not theirs to face alone.”

19 per cent of the coral reefs in the world are in SIDS’ waters. The combined Exclusive Economic Zones of Mauritius and Seychelles – the waters they control – are bigger than the size of India. The meeting will assert that a sustainable future for the planet relies on a renewed and strengthened partnership between all island nations and the international community.

The Mauritius meeting is the first regional review meeting on the path to the Fourth International Conference on Small Island Developing States, taking place in Antigua and Barbuda in 2024. Further regional meetings will be held this summer in Tonga for the Pacific region and in St. Vincent and the Grenadines for the Caribbean. These meetings will be followed by a final interregional gathering in Cabo Verde.

The Antigua and Barbuda conference next year will undertake a comprehensive review of the implementation of the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action (S.A.M.O.A.) Pathway, a major international development compact agreed in 2014.

The Mauritius meeting will adopt an outcome document with recommendations that will feed directly into preparations for the 2024 Conference. The meeting will bring together ministers and senior government officials from SIDS across the region alongside representatives of development partners and the UN system.

For more information

Social media
Please follow any highlights and updates for the 2024 SIDS Conference using the hashtags #SIDS4 and #SmallIslands.

On Facebook: United Nations, Global GoalsUN, UN DESA, OHRLLS
On Twitter: @UN,  @GlobalGoalsUN, @UNDESA, @SustDev, @UNOHRLLS

Media contact
Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States | Conor O’Loughlin | conor.oloughlin@un.org
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/240111-consultations-open-mauritius-ahead-first-major-international-conference-small-island




Date: 15 June 2022
Title: First Multi-Sector Policy Dialogue between the Government of Seychelles and the United Nations Country Team
Content: 15 June 2022
The High-Level Dialogue was co-chaired by Mr. Sylvestre Radegonde, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Tourism, and Ms. Christine N. Umutoni, the United Nations Resident Coordinator (UNRC) for Seychelles and Mauritius.
The first Multi-Sector Policy Dialogue between the Government of Seychelles and the United Nations Country Team (UNCT), was held on 19 May 2022.
The Dialogue was organized as an open and constructive exchange between Seychelles’ Ministers and other representatives from both the Government and the UN, in order to reflect on the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic and to identify priority areas of support and cooperation for the next UN-Seychelles Strategic Partnership Framework (SPF 2024-2028) in parallel with the country’s National Development Strategy (NDS).
The UN Resident Coordinator expressed the commitment of the United Nations through collective engagement to contribute to Seychelles development aspirations, moving from recovery to sustainable development, with a focus on achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
The two co-chairs recognised the excellent collaboration that exists between Seychelles and the United Nations, which extends over a broad scope of areas. The delegates exchanged experiences and best practices on possible cooperation on a number of issues of common interest, including the priority areas outlined for the next NDS, namely Transformative Economy, Environment Sustainability, Climate Change, Human Rights, Law and Order, Health, Social Affairs, Education and Culture.
Minister Radegonde and the UNRC Umutoni also acknowledged the role that the United Nations can play in advocating for Seychelles’ priorities and vulnerabilities as a Small Island Developing State (SIDS). Both sides also agreed to work in synergy as a way forward, for the benefit and improvement of the socio-economic development of the country, post COVID-19 pandemic.
Minister Radegonde took the opportunity to reiterate the appreciation of the Government for the continued support of the United Nations Agencies towards Seychelles.
The High-Level Policy Dialogue represents one of the key outcomes of the UNCT Annual Retreat being held in Seychelles from 18 to 20 May 2022.
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/186309-first-multi-sector-policy-dialogue-between-government-seychelles-and-united-nations-country




Date: 19 May 2022
Title: President Ramkalawan receives United Nations  Resident Coordinator
Content: 19 May 2022
The United Nations Family, led by the UN Resident Coordinator for Mauritius and Seychelles, Ms. Christine N. Umutoni paid a courtesy call on President Wavel Ramkalawan at the State House this morning.
The Resident Coordinator presented to His Excellency her delegation of 10 Heads of Agencies who are in Seychelles to attend the annual United Nations Country Team held in Mahe. The purpose of the strategic retreat is to review work done so far and prepare for the future through a high-level policy dialogue with government. The theme of the UNCT retreat is “let’s walk together beyond recovery to long term development”.
President Ramkalawan extended a warm welcome to the Resident Coordinator and her delegation whilst conveying appreciation of the long-standing strategic partnership between the United Nations and Seychelles and the significant role it played in supporting the country through the COVID-19 crisis. The President also emphasized the importance of moving away from the siloed approach to development and instead working in synergy to ensure efficient utilization of resources for socio-economic recovery.
The UN team congratulated the President on a successful election and for the peaceful transfer of power, and Seychelles’ effective response to the COVID crisis. Ms. Christine N. Umutoni also thanked the President for the opportunity to meet with him to discuss national development priorities. She highlighted the timeliness of the meeting as the UN initiates the process for a new cooperation framework with Seychelles.
Speaking at the request of the Resident Coordinator on behalf of the UN, the regional director for UNESCO, recognized the devastating impact of COVID-19 in highlighting the vulnerability of small island developing states. He identified the importance of economic diversification and emphasized the UN’s capacity to mobilize knowledge and expertise at national, regional and global levels, and to facilitate collaboration and exchange between countries in the region.
Also present was the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Tourism, Mr. Sylvestre Radegonde.
Members of the UN agencies included: Mr. Hubert Gijzen UNESCO Regional Director for Eastern Africa and Representative, Ms. Zebib Kavuma, UN Women Deputy Regional Director for Eastern and Southern Africa, Mr. Frank Turyatunga, UNEP Acting Director and Regional Representative Africa Office, Ms. Amanda Serumaga, UNDP Resident Representative for Mauritius and Seychelles, Mr. Charles Mbuli Boliko, FAO Representative for Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar and Comoros, Mr. Coffi Agossou, ILO, Country Office Director for Madagascar, Comoros, Mauritius and Seychelles, Mr. Jude Padayachy, UNAIDS Country Director for Madagascar, Comoros, Mauritius and Seychelles, Mr. Koffi Kouame, UNFPA Representative for Madagascar and Country Director for Comoros, Mauritius, and Seychelles, Dr. Rex Mpanzanje, WHO Representative for Seychelles, Ms. Celine Lemmel, IOM Head of Mission for Mauritius and Seychelles, Ms. Janee Connery Communication and Advocacy Officer at RCO.
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/183178-president-ramkalawan-receives-united-nations-resident-coordinator




Date: 07 September 2021
Title: Training to Build Resilience for Shaping a Better Future: UNITAR Improves Climate Change Preparedness for COP26
Content: 07 September 2021
7 September 2021, Geneva, Switzerland – The current global pandemic highlighted how training to build resilience is more critical than ever. For the past 18 months, the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences have been the primary concern of world leaders and government officials. However, this poses the risk of overshadowing yet another existential challenge, which requires immediate attention and action.
In November, the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) will convene in Glasgow. In light of this, UNITAR, the UN Resident Coordinator's Office for Mauritius and Seychelles, the Group of 77, and China implemented a series of e-Workshops on Climate Change Diplomacy to support the educational development of delegates and representatives. These training sessions aimed to build the capacities of government officers on climate change negotiations and provide them with essential knowledge for the upcoming COP26. The design of the workshops enabled high-level officials to extensively develop their knowledge, competency, and train their negotiation skills.
To lead the discussion on the challenges of COP26, UNITAR selected Mr. Marcelo Rocha, an agronomist, land use expert, and lead coordinating author at the IPCC, and Ms. Ana Kleymeyer, former Senior Advisor to the Argentinian Secretary of the Environment. The trainers highlighted the paramount agreements in their history, as well as the terminologies and concepts of climate finance that are beneficial to Small Island Developing States (SIDS), such as Mauritius and Seychelles, in addition to providing background information on the history of COP and UNFCCC.
During the workshops, participants discussed the concerns raised at COP25 and the transition from one conference to another. The workshops provided officials of Mauritius and Seychelles with the appropriate background knowledge on the International Climate Change Policy Framework, the causes and impacts of climate change, and key negotiation skills.
Through a tailor-made simulation exercise, participants had the opportunity to build their resilience for formal and informal negotiations in COP processes. The simulation exercise supported officials in developing their positions and interests as well as in expanding their capacity-building skills.
The Online Climate Change Diplomacy Training for G77 and China Chairmanship Team was the final event in the series. It prepared high-level diplomats to the technical, procedural, and political knowledge required in chairing roles. Participants were trained to strengthen and expand their interpersonal skills and stakeholder engagement, capacities that will prove vital to achieving the conference objectives.
The UNITAR e-Workshops on Climate Change Diplomacy are an opportunity for delegates and representatives to get a better appreciation of what to expect from COP26 while sharing best practices with distinguished colleagues. Bringing together experts and professionals in one virtual environment has allowed a huge number of diplomats from many countries to enhance climate change awareness and to build resilience in anticipation of the critical stakes that surround the upcoming COP26.



rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/150225-training-build-resilience-shaping-better-future-unitar-improves-climate-change-preparedness




Date: 01 September 2021
Title: Seychelles ENV - Examen national volontaire 2020
Content: 01 September 2021
Le Programme de développement durable à l’horizon 2030 est fondé explicitement sur les normes et standards de droits de l'homme faisant de l'approche fondée sur les droits de l'homme un élément central de la mise en oeuvre des Objectifs de développement durables (ODD) et de l'engagement de ne laisser personne de côté.
Le Haut-Commissariat des Nations Unies aux droits de
l'homme (HCDH) met à disposition des outils et des
méthodes qui peuvent aider à intégrer les informations et
analyses existentes en matière de droits de l'homme dans les
examens nationaux volontaires. Ces outils peuvent guider le
suivi des progrès réalisés au niveau national et identifier les
points d'accélération pertinents.
Une telle information peut contribuer à ce que le processus
d'examen national volontaire prenne en compte des questions
telles que les inégalités, la discrimination, la reddition de
compte, l'état de droit, la participation et l'inclusion, en
guidant la manière dont l'ENV est préparé.
L'analyse des droits de l'homme peut aider à rendre compte
de la mise en oeuvre des ODD qui sont liés à des droits tels
que l'eau, la santé, le logement. Elle peut aussi aider à
identifier les groupes qui risquent d'être laissés de côté, ceux
qui sont le plus laissés de côté et les moyens de prendre en
compte leur situation de manière effective. Lier
systématiquement les processus de suivi du Programme 2030
et des droits de l'homme contribue également à réduire la
charge liée à l'élaboration de rapports.
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/142512-seychelles-env-examen-national-volontaire-2020




Date: 17 July 2021
Title: Southern Africa Migration Management (SAMM) Project
Content: 17 July 2021
The SAMM Project is implemented by the ILO in collaboration with the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
The Southern Africa Migration Management (SAMM) Project, funded by the European Commission, is a four-year project to improve migration management in the Southern Africa and Indian Ocean region. The SAMM Project is implemented by the ILO in collaboration with the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).

The specific objectives (SO) and key results areas (KRA) of the project are as follows:

SO1: Improved policy environment for labour migration across the region and improved access to legal and efficient means of labour mobility for (prospective) labour migrants.

KRA1.1: Rights-based legal and efficient channels of labour migration and mobility (including appropriate protection measures for migrant workers) promoted and put in place in the Southern Africa / Indian Ocean region.

KRA1.2: A Southern African and Indian Ocean migration observatory established and fully operational.

SO2: Strengthened and informed decision-making as well as management of mixed migration flows, including improved protection of vulnerable migrants in the Southern African and Indian Ocean region.

KRA2: Evidence-based management strategies and policies to address mixed migration challenges, including assurance of appropriate protection frameworks for vulnerable migrants, are formulated and implemented.

The project targets the following regional organizations: i) Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), ii) the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and; iii) the Indian Ocean Commission (IOC). It focuses on the following countries: Angola, Botswana, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Eswatini, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

The implementation of the project started in January 2020 with the recruitment of staff and the preparation of stocktaking exercise regarding completed and on-going activities in the field of labour migration undertaken in the countries covered by the project, to the extent that these activities have a bearing on the workplan of the project.
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/143979-southern-africa-migration-management-samm-project




Date: 19 June 2021
Title: UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi’s message on World Refugee Day - 20 June 2021
Content: 19 June 2021
World Refugee Day is an international day designated by the United Nations to honour refugees around the globe. It falls each year on June 20 and celebrates the strength and courage of people who have been forced to flee their home country to escape conflict or persecution. World Refugee Day is an occasion to build empathy and understanding for their plight and to recognize their resilience in rebuilding their lives.
Two days ago, we announced that an unprecedented number of people have been forced to flee their homes. More than 82.4 million men, women and children have had their worlds turned upside down by war, violence and persecution. While the rest of us spent much of the last year at home to stay safe, they had to run from their homes just to stay alive.
And as world leaders are seemingly unable or unwilling to make peace, more and more displaced people pay the price. In the past three years alone, some one million children were born into a life of exile. What will their futures hold? What opportunities will they have to achieve their potential?
Today, World Refugee Day, should serve as a stark reminder to politicians of the need to do more to prevent and resolve conflict and crises. And of the imperative to protect people irrespective of their race, nationality, beliefs or other characteristics. Of the need to speak out and fight injustice, instead of fueling division and fomenting hate. To resolve to find pragmatic and lasting solutions to crises instead of blaming others or vilifying victims.
Simply put, leaders need to step up and work together to solve today’s global challenges.
Yet World Refugee Day is also an opportunity to celebrate the fortitude of refugees. Those who have been stripped of everything and yet carry on, often bearing the visible and invisible wounds of war, persecution, and the anxiety of exile.
Over the past several months, a time dominated by the pandemic, we have seen that refugees – while needing, deserving, and having the right to international protection, safety, and support – also give back to each other and to their host communities.
When given the chance, they have run to the front lines of the COVID-19 response as doctors, nurses, cleaners, aid workers, care givers, shopkeepers, educators, and many other roles, providing essential services as we collectively battled the virus. We have seen them and their hosts selflessly share meagre resources and help lift those in the greatest of need.
Next month, we will see them in another arena demonstrating what can be achieved if included in society and given the same opportunities as the rest of us: refugee athletes will approach the starting line as they compete with the world’s best in the Tokyo Olympics.
So on World Refugee Day, as we pause to express solidarity with refugees in our communities and around the world, I hope each of us will also acknowledge and admire the drive, determination, and contributions made by people forced to flee. My colleagues and I have the privilege of witnessing their tenacity and achievement every day, which - especially today – should be a source of inspiration for everyone, everywhere.
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/143897-un-high-commissioner-refugees-filippo-grandi%E2%80%99s-message-world-refugee-day-20-june-2021




Date: 15 June 2021
Title: New report on single-use plastic products aims to advance sustainability in travel and tourism
Content: 15 June 2021
London, 15 June 2021 - The World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), launch a major new report today, addressing the complex issue of single-use plastic products within Travel & Tourism.
‘Rethinking Single-Use Plastic Products in Travel & Tourism’ launches as countries around the world begin to reopen, and the Travel & Tourism sector starts to show signs of recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic which has been devastating.
The report is a first step to mapping single-use plastic products across the Travel & Tourism value chain, identifying hotspots for environmental leakages, and providing practical and strategic recommendations for businesses and policymakers.
It is intended to help stakeholders take collective steps towards coordinated actions and policies that drive a shift towards reduce and reuse models, in line with circularity principles, as well as current and future waste infrastructures.
The report’s recommendations include redefining unnecessary single-use plastic products in the context of one’s own business; giving contractual preference to suppliers of reusable products; proactively planning procedures that avoid a return to single-use plastic products in the event of disease outbreaks; supporting research and innovation in product design and service models that decrease the use of plastic items, and revising policies and quality standards with waste reduction, and circularity in mind.
Virginia Messina, Senior Vice President and Acting CEO, WTTC said: “WTTC is proud to release this important high-level report for the sector, focusing on sustainability and reducing waste from single-use plastic products in Travel & Tourism.
“The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the sustainability agenda with businesses and policymakers now putting an even stronger focus on it. As a growing priority, businesses are expected to continue to reduce single-use plastic products waste for the future and drive circularity to protect not only our people, but importantly, our planet.
“It is also becoming clear that consumers are making more conscious choices, and increasingly supporting businesses with sustainability front of mind.”
Single-use plastic products can be a threat to the environment and human health and without deliberate effort across the sector, Travel & Tourism can and will contribute significantly to the issue.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had both negative and positive impacts on single-use plastics pollution.
The demand for single-use plastics items has increased with safety being a high concern among tourists and take-away services being on the rise. According to the Thailand Environment Institute, plastic waste has increased from 1,500 tons to a staggering 6,300 tons per day, owing to soaring home deliveries of food.
However, the pandemic has also catalysed consumer demand for green tourism experiences around the world, with a 2019 global study finding 82% of respondents are aware of plastic waste and are already taking practical actions to tackle pollution.
The report recognises that global solutions are required to address corporate concerns about the use of single-use plastic products. It aims to support informed decision making based on the potential impacts of trade-offs and of unintended burden shifting when considering the transition to sustainable alternatives.
Sheila Aggarwal-Khan, Director of the Economy Division, UNEP said:
"Travel & Tourism has a key role to play in addressing the triple planetary crises of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution, as well as making circularity in the use of plastics a reality.
The advent of COVID-19 and consequent proliferation of single-use plastic products has added urgency to the crises. With this report, we hope to encourage stakeholders in this industry to come together to address this multifaceted challenge. Only by doing so, can we ensure meaningful and durable change."
With around 90 percent of ocean plastic derived from land-based sources and the annual damage of plastics to marine ecosystems amounting to US$13 billion per year, proactively addressing the challenge of plastics within the Travel & Tourism sector is key.

NOTES TO EDITORS
WTTC & UNEP are hosting a webinar ‘Rethinking Single Use Plastic Products in Travel & Tourism’ which will discuss some of the main sector players’ achievements in addressing this issue and the challenges that remain. The event will take place on 24 June, between 2pm – 3pm BST. To register, please click here.
About the The World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC)
The World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) represents the global Travel & Tourism private sector. Members include 200 CEOs, Chairs and Presidents of the world’s leading Travel & Tourism companies from all geographies covering all industries. For more than 30 years, WTTC has been committed to raising the awareness of governments and the public of the economic and social significance of the Travel & Tourism sector
About the UN Environment Programme (UNEP)
UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
For more information, please contact:
Keishamaza Rukikaire, Head of News and Media, UNEP
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/143477-new-report-single-use-plastic-products-aims-advance-sustainability-travel-and-tourism




Date: 01 January 2021
Title: Child protection and COVID-19
Content: 01 January 2021
Children’s exposure to increased protection risks as a result of the COVID-19 crisis may be influenced through a number of pathways. In a direct way, the virus could result in loss of parental care due to death, illness or separation, thereby placing children at heightened risk for violence, neglect or exploitation. This could manifest as a result of the immediate situation and containment measures but could also stem from the economic crisis that may result from the current situation and families’ reduced capacity to care for children in the long-term. More indirectly, mitigating measures adopted by many countries to address the pandemic have resulted in disruptions to children’s everyday environments, routines, and relationships. What’s more, many of the prevention and control measures have resulted in disruptions to the reporting and referral mechanisms of child protection services, leaving many children and families vulnerable. Moreover, measures to contain the virus have affected delivery of vital support and treatment services as well as contact with informal support networks.
When it comes to violence, a number of factors related to confinement measures are likely to result in increased risk for children including heightened tensions in the household, added stressors placed on caregivers, economic uncertainty, job loss or disruption to livelihoods, and social isolation. Children may also increasingly witness intimate partner violence. During the crisis, identifying children at risk is inherently more challenging given that many adults who would typically recognize signs of abuse, such as teachers, childcare workers, coaches, extended family and community members and child and family welfare workers, are no longer in regular contact with children.
With the loss or reduction of household income, there may be an increased need or expectation for children to contribute to their families financially by engaging in work. This presents the potential for children to be exposed to hazardous or exploitative forms of work and could also contribute to gender imbalances within the family if girls are increasingly expected to perform household duties and chores.
Mitigating measures such as the closure of non-essential services is likely to threaten and derail access to birth registration services for many families. A birth certificate, obtained through the birth registration process, is proof of legal identity, and is the basis upon which children can establish a nationality, avoid the risk of statelessness and seek protection from violence and exploitation. Possession of a birth certificate is protective in many ways since proof of age is needed to help prevent child labour, child marriage and underage recruitment into the armed forces.
Children without parental or family care, including those living on the streets, in alternative care and those deprived of their liberty are especially vulnerable under the current circumstances. Most countries still lack accurate and reliable figures on the number, and characteristics, of children in such situations. The potential of being exposed to, or infected, by the virus in crowded settings is high given that physical distancing and other basic sanitation practices are often difficult to observe. For children in residential care, a lack of capacity and resources could result in a rapid closure of such facilities, with children being returned to families without proper preparation. The closure of facilities to outsiders is likely to result in limited oversight, which could lead to increased risk for neglect and violence. For children in street situations, access to help and support services is likely to be disrupted and even more challenging. Measures such as the closure of courts and the suspension of trials and proceedings, could result in the continued detention of children who might otherwise be released or placed in non-custodial alternatives.
While the pandemic’s impact on the number of children becoming child brides and grooms is not precisely known, experience shows that the circumstances created by this crisis may introduce risks for children. For example, child marriage is more common among poorer segments of the population, and pressures including a family’s economic burden and the desire to secure financial stability for daughters are often cited as reasons that parents choose to have girls marry at a young age. Thus, the unemployment crisis and economic uncertainty stemming from the pandemic might bring more families to use child marriage as a coping mechanism. In addition, decisions about a girl’s education and marriage are often made in tandem, with an exit from education paired with entry into marriage; thus, school closures and the resulting interruption to girls’ education may hasten the arrangements for marriage.
We are at the very early stages of understanding how the coronavirus pandemic and similar public health crises affect child protection. Such gaps are compounded by deficits in statistical evidence more generally. It will be particularly challenging to track changes in levels of protection risks resulting from COVID-19, since most countries do not even have a reliable baseline.
That said, UNICEF is undertaking a number of activities to explore methods for estimating the potential impact of COVID-19 on a number of areas of child protection. For example, work is underway to explore possible impacts of the pandemic on the global burden of child marriage and on child labour. Finally, a study is being conducted to understand the potential impacts of COVID-19 on family violence through a variety of data sources that include social media platforms, household surveys and administrative records. The overall aim is to explore the feasibility of quantifying how the pandemic might impact the prevalence of certain forms of violence against children.
rco-mauritius-seychelles-registry@un.org
URL: https://seychelles.un.org/en/143899-child-protection-and-covid-19




