Date: 09 April 2024
Title: UN extends Eid al-Fitr greetings to all Somalis
Content: 09 April 2024
The United Nations in Somalia extends its warmest greetings to all Somalis as they celebrate the end of the Holy Month of Ramadan.
Mogadishu — The United Nations in Somalia extends its warmest greetings to all Somalis as they celebrate the end of the Holy Month of Ramadan.
“The United Nations family wishes ‘Ciid Wanaagsan’ to the people of Somalia. Eid al-Fitr is a time for celebration of the values of togetherness, compassion, and reconciliation. These values are part of the firm foundation on which Somalia is building its future and are shared by the United Nations. Eid Mubarak to all,” said the UN Secretary General’s Special Representative for Somalia, Catriona Laing.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/266205-un-extends-eid-al-fitr-greetings-all-somalis




Date: 08 March 2024
Title: On International Women’s Day, UN calls for investing in Somali women’s participation and representation
Content: 08 March 2024
United Nations today calls on Somali authorities to invest greater effort in ensuring women’s inclusion in politics and making the minimum 30 per cent quota for women’s parliamentary representation a reality.
Mogadishu –On the occasion of International Women’s Day, the United Nations today called on the Somali authorities to invest greater effort in ensuring women’s inclusion in politics and making the minimum 30 per cent quota for women’s parliamentary representation a reality.
“The minimum 30 per cent quota will go a long to helping promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in Somalia. Despite numerous challenges, Somali women continue to make significant contributions to peacebuilding and reconciliation – this is through service as Members of Parliament, on civil society organisations and on youth associations, to name a few – but there needs to be even more investment of resources to build on this progress as investing in women is a cornerstone for building inclusive societies,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, Catriona Laing.
“Somali women continue to remind stakeholders that ensuring inclusion and the 30 per cent quota in legislation is an achievable request given commitments already made by Somali leadership in the past,” she added.
Somali women leaders have been engaging stakeholders – including the National Consultative Council, religious and traditional leaders, the Speakers of Parliament, the Independent Constitutional Review Commission and the Oversight Committee – on the need for legislation and mechanisms to implement and achieve the women’s quota.
In Somalia, the UN supports the Federal Government in its efforts to increase women’s political participation and enact laws that strengthen the protection of women and girls, that comply with Somalia’s human rights obligations and meet international human rights standards. The UN also partners with the Federal Government and civil society to end harmful practices such as female genital mutilation.
The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is ‘Invest in Women: Accelerate Progress.’ The occasion has been observed around the world since 1875 to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women, as well as to mark a call to action for accelerating gender equality.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/262937-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-un-calls-investing-somali-women%E2%80%99s-participation-and-representation




Date: 29 February 2024
Title: Somalia launches new Joint Resilience Programme to benefit a million people in Puntland and Galmudug states
Content: 29 February 2024
"The Programme will target one million people in North Galkayo and Galdogob districts in Puntland state and Dhuusamarreeb and South Galkayo districts in Galmudug state"
MOGADISHU, 21 February 2024: The Federal Government of Somalia has today launched the next iteration of the “Joint Resilience Programme”, which aims to improve resilience to economic and climate related shocks among households and local communities in four districts in Puntland and Galmudug states.
Funded by the Government of Germany through KfW with an initial allocation of EUR 30 million, the Programme will target one million people in North Galkayo and Galdogob districts in Puntland state and Dhuusamarreeb and South Galkayo districts in Galmudug state and will be implemented over 18 months in a first phase.
The programme aims to increase access to inclusive, child-friendly education, school water and sanitation (WASH), health and nutrition for children at pre-primary and primary levels, reduce micronutrient deficiencies among young children and pregnant and breastfeeding women, enable households to improve food security and livelihoods through diversified agricultural production and income generation, and strengthen government systems to promote quality health, nutrition, education and WASH services in schools and health facilities.
Targeted individuals include school-aged children, internally displaced children, vulnerable adolescents, and pregnant and breastfeeding women. The Programme will be overseen by the Ministry of Planning, Investment, and Economic Development and implemented by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Food Programme (WFP) together with the relevant ministries of the two state governments, district and local authorities, and non-governmental organizations.
“The launch of this new phase of the Joint Resilience Program marks a significant step towards strengthening the resilience of communities in Puntland and Galmudug states of Somalia. The joint action of WFP and UNICEF will play a central role in addressing the effects of climate-related shocks, food security, nutrition, education, and health,” said Hon. Mohamud Abdirahman Farah, Minister of Planning, Investment and Economic Development “As we look forward to strengthening coordination and collaboration between all stakeholders in the effective implementation of the program, we extend our heartfelt gratitude to the German government for their generous funding in fostering the resilience of communities in the Galmudug and Puntland regions.”
“We believe that this new Joint Resilience Programme will continue the success of the previous phases by combining the strengths and expertise of various partners in a comprehensive and multisectoral approach. Close cooperation between UNICEF, WFP and the Somali authorities on federal, regional and local level will be essential for achieving the expected improvements in the lives of the Somali people,” said Mrs. Alena Kern, Head of Development Cooperation at the German Embassy in Somalia.
This new programme expands on the results achieved in Phases I, II, and II of the first Joint Resilience Programme, which has been implemented in Benadir region and Jubaland state since 2018 and is phasing out in late 2024. These include:
“Most children in Somalia continue to endure climate related shocks and protracted conflicts with alarming regularity and often with far-reaching consequences on their health and well-being,” said UNICEF Representative Wafaa Saeed. “The Joint Resilience Programme has been able to achieve this success because of the leadership of the Government of Somalia, the generous support of the German government, and the collaboration of WFP. Through the years, this partnership has delivered critical, lifesaving support to vulnerable children and women and enabled them to cope better with shocks and crises, and we are delighted with its extension to the four districts.”
“This Programme builds on the strong foundation established by the Joint Resilience Programme and will enable the steady shift from humanitarian response to enhanced resilience and build the capacity of communities at the frontline of the climate crisis to respond to shocks,” said WFP Somalia Country Director Elkhidir Daloum. “Working with UNICEF and partners, this lifecycle approach will meet the needs of mothers, infants, school aged children and adults, while strengthening the resilience of local food systems. I thank the Government of Somalia for their leadership, and the Government of Germany for their sustained support to this critical Programme.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/262000-somalia-launches-new-joint-resilience-programme-benefit-million-people-puntland-and-galmudug




Date: 30 January 2024
Title: Humanitarian partners seek US$1.6 billion to assist 5.2 million people in Somalia in 2024
Content: 30 January 2024
Mogadishu, 30 January 2024 – Today, the United Nations in Somalia, humanitarian partners together with the Federal and State Governments released the 2024 Humanitarian Needs and Response Plan (HNRP), which seeks US$1.6 billion to assist 5.2 million people out of 6.9 million who need lifesaving humanitarian and protection assistance in Somalia.
“In addition to climatic shocks, conflict and insecurity, widespread poverty and disease outbreaks will continue to drive humanitarian needs this year,” said Mr. George Conway, Deputy Special Representative of the UN Secretary General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia. “Humanitarian and development partners will strengthen complementarity and work towards collective outcomes that will help reduce needs, risks and vulnerabilities, increase resilience and ensure that future shocks do not lead to catastrophe.”
In 2023, Somalia was hit by shocks including devastating drought, unprecedented heavy rains and flooding, and new displacement. As a result, millions are continuing to suffer from hunger and malnutrition. While the situation has improved since 2023, 4.3 million people - almost one fourth of the population – remain acutely food insecure and two in five children under the age of 5 suffer from acute malnutrition. An estimated 3.8 million people are internally displaced, and a cholera outbreak is spreading in several districts.
“More than 80 per cent of the displaced are women and children and face serious protection risks,” said Mr. Mohamud Moalim, Commissioner, Somalia Disaster Management Agency (SODMA). “The Somali Government is concerned about the humanitarian situation that is worsened by climate-induced crises. We are determined to address the underlying causes of Somalia’s crises, improve livelihoods and build long-term durable solutions.”
In 2024, humanitarian partners will implement a more stringently targeted response, with a focus on assisting populations in most severe need. The response is tailored to ensure realistic planning and strict response boundaries. The funding requirements reflect a 37 per cent reduction from $2.6 billion that was required to meet the needs of 7.6 million people in 2023.
“I am very appreciative of the Government and humanitarian partners work to support people in need in Somalia,” said Mr. Conway. “Humanitarian partners reached up to 8.4 million people cumulatively in 2023 and are committed to building on these achievements.”
For further information, please contact:
Mohamud Moalim| Commissioner | SODMA
Crispen Ruhasha | Head of Office | UN OCHA Somalia| rukasha@un.org| Tel. +252 618 960 054
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/259189-humanitarian-partners-seek-us16-billion-assist-52-million-people-somalia-2024




Date: 12 January 2024
Title: UN condemns deadly mortar attack on Aden Adde International Airport area
Content: 12 January 2024
Mogadishu – The United Nations in Somalia strongly condemns a mortar attack which killed a member of the UN Guard Unit on Thursday.
“The UN Guard Unit plays an integral role in ensuring the safety and security of UN staff working in support of Somali peace- and state-building. We condemn this act of violence, and our thoughts are with the family and colleagues of the victim during this difficult time,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, Catriona Laing.
A number of mortar rounds landed inside the Aden Adde International Airport area, in which the UN Compound is located, on Thursday night. In addition to the death of a UN Guard Unit member, the mortar rounds damaged infrastructure. Al-Shabaab has reportedly claimed responsibility for the attack.
The UN in Somalia calls for those responsible to be brought to justice, and remains committed to supporting the people and government of Somalia in their efforts to build peace and stability in the country.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/259181-un-condemns-deadly-mortar-attack-aden-adde-international-airport-area




Date: 21 September 2023
Title: Readout of the Secretary-General’s meeting with H.E. Mr. Hamza Abdi Barre, Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia
Content: 21 September 2023
The Secretary-General met with H.E. Mr. Hamza Abdi Barre, Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia, on 21 September 2023.
The Secretary-General met with H.E. Mr. Hamza Abdi Barre, Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia, on 21 September 2023.
The Secretary-General welcomed efforts by Somalia’s leaders to advance key state-building priorities. The Prime Minister highlighted the progress achieved on the security, political and economic fronts. The Secretary-General and the Prime Minister also discussed the progress achieved on security, the fight against Al-Shabaab and United Nations support.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/246915-readout-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-meeting-he-mr-hamza-abdi-barre-prime-minister-federal-republic




Date: 03 September 2023
Title: The Headies and UNFPA Somalia Join Forces to Amplify the Voices of Women and Girls in Crisis-Stricken Somalia
Content: 03 September 2023
Atlanta, September 3, 2023 - The Headies, a leading hip-hop awards platform, and UNFPA Somalia, the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency, have partnered to bring attention to the plight of women and girls in Somalia, who are facing a humanitarian crisis exacerbated by conflict, and climate change.
As part of the partnership, a 3-minute video highlighting the crisis in Somalia and UNFPA's initiatives was screened during the 16th Annual Headies Awards, held in Atlanta, Georgia. This video screening helped generate awareness and support for UNFPA's efforts to address the crisis in Somalia.
"We are thrilled to partner with The Headies to bring attention to the urgent humanitarian crisis in Somalia, particularly for women and girls," said Niyi Ojuolape, Country Representative, UNFPA Somalia. "This partnership will help us amplify their voices and mobilize resources to provide much-needed support to those most in need."
Somalia has been grappling with a prolonged humanitarian crisis, resulting in widespread displacement, poverty, and vulnerability, particularly among women and girls. The crisis has led to an increase in gender-based violence, child marriage, and female genital mutilation, further threatening the well-being and empowerment of women and girls.
"Climate change disproportionately impacts the most vulnerable, especially women and girls. The Headies partnering with UNFPA Somalia is a welcome effort to raise awareness and support our cause," said Ifrah Ahmed, Somali-Irish social activist and founder of Ifrah Foundation.
The partnership aims to raise awareness about the crisis, mobilize resources, and inspire action to support UNFPA's life-saving work for women and girls in Somalia. The collaboration will leverage The Headies' vast audience and influence to amplify the voices of women and girls, who are disproportionately affected by the crisis.
For more information on how to donate and support Somali women and girls, please visit https://www.unfpa.org/donate/Somalia
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/244570-headies-and-unfpa-somalia-join-forces-amplify-voices-women-and-girls-crisis-stricken-somalia




Date: 27 August 2023
Title: International partners condemn escalation of conflict in Laascaanood
Content: 27 August 2023
Mogadishu –  International partners* strongly condemn the escalation of conflict in Laascaanood, including reports of fighting spreading outside the town.
We urge all sides to agree to an immediate and unconditional ceasefire. We call for an end to the mobilisation of fighters and to the provision of supplies and armaments. We are deeply concerned about reports of large numbers of detainees and expect those involved to abide by human rights and international humanitarian law, in particular the protection of civilians and civilian infrastructure.
We reiterate the importance of ensuring unhindered humanitarian access and delivery of assistance to those in need. We urge all parties to refrain from divisive rhetoric. All grievances and tensions should be resolved peacefully and through dialogue.
*African Union Transition Mission in Somalia (ATMIS), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, European Union (EU) Delegation, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Türkiye, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States and United Nations.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/244496-international-partners-condemn-escalation-conflict-laascaanood




Date: 01 July 2023
Title: On the occasion of the 63rd anniversary of Somalia’s independence, the United Nations congratulates the people of Somalia and praises their commitment towards building a better future.
Content: 01 July 2023
On the occasion of the 63rd anniversary of Somalia’s independence, the United Nations congratulates the people of Somalia and praises their commitment towards building a better future.
Mogadishu – On the occasion of the 63rd anniversary of Somalia’s independence, the United Nations congratulates the people of Somalia and praises their commitment towards building a better future.
“On behalf of the UN family in Somalia, I salute the people of Somalia and reaffirm the UN’s support to ensure an inclusive, peaceful and prosperous Somalia” said the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia, Catriona Laing
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/240109-occasion-63rd%C2%A0anniversary-somalia%E2%80%99s-independence-united-nations-congratulates-people-somalia




Date: 24 May 2023
Title: International Partners Commend the People of Puntland on Historic Elections
Content: 24 May 2023
Mogadishu - Ahead of district council elections in Puntland on 25 May, Somalia’s international partners* commend the people of the Federal Member State of Puntland for their determination to deliver on their democratic aspirations and commitments.
The partners acknowledge the efforts, notably by the Transitional Puntland Electoral Commission (TPEC), to overcome significant challenges in preparing for this historic event of direct elections.
The partners encourage all stakeholders to contribute to ensuring the elections are conducted in a peaceful atmosphere, and to address any questions or disputes that may arise through dialogue and the legal framework.
The partners believe that Puntland’s experience with direct elections has the potential to inform and inspire the expansion of democracy across Somalia, at all levels of government. The partners remain committed to supporting Somalia’s process of democratization.
*African Union Transition Mission in Somalia (ATMIS), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Ethiopia, European Union (EU) Delegation, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Russia, Sweden, Türkiye, United Kingdom, United States, and United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/232929-international-partners-commend-people-puntland-historic-elections




Date: 10 May 2023
Title: Somalia Joint Fund launched in Mogadishu
Content: 10 May 2023
A multi-donor trust fund was launched in Mogadishu earlier today to strengthen partnership between the Somali Government, the United Nations, and international partners in support of Somalia’s national development priorities and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
10 May 2023, Mogadishu: A multi-donor trust fund was launched in Mogadishu earlier today to strengthen partnership between the Somali Government, the United Nations, and international partners in support of Somalia’s national development priorities and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. The launch was attended by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia, H.E. Salah Jama, the Minister of Planning, Investment and Economic Development, representatives of Somalia’s international partners, and senior United Nations officials.
“The Somalia Joint Fund is a joint venture between Somalia, the United Nations, and international partners. It provides the Government with a mechanism to ensure international alignment with national priorities, strengthen national ownership of international development assistance, and collectively prioritize and coordinate the use of resources for the best impact,” said H.E. Mohamud Abdirahman “Beenebeene”, Minister of Planning, Investment and Economic Development.
Speaking at the event, Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, highlighted:
“Country-level pooled funds like the Somalia Joint Fund are critical for the United Nations’ ability to better support development aspirations of the countries we operate in. The Somalia Joint Fund will provide the necessary flexibility to respond to complex challenges facing Somalia and to maximize synergies across the UN system through joint action. The Fund will also serve as a platform for open and honest dialogue between Somalia and its international partners under the leadership of the Government.”
Originally established in 2014 and formerly known as Somalia Multi-Partner Trust Fund, the Somalia Joint Fund is one of the largest country-level development funds globally with more than 500 million USD in contributions since inception. Sweden, the European Union, Norway, Switzerland, and Denmark are the largest contributors to the Fund. The Somalia Joint Fund, administered by the UN Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office in New York, seeks to mobilize 60 million USD annually in the next three years to support the most critical and strategic priorities in Somalia through seven funding windows: Inclusive Politics; Rule of Law; Human Rights and Gender; Climate and Resilience; Community Recovery and Local Governance; Economic Development; and Social Development.

For more information please contact:

Peter Nordstrom | Senior Trust Fund Manager Somalia Joint Fund| nordstromp@un.org
Muse M Osman | Director, Planning, Ministry of Planning Investment and Economic Development| muse@mop.gov.so
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/230816-somalia-joint-fund-launched-mogadishu




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: On World Press Freedom Day, UN encourages safeguarding media’s vital role in Somalia
Content: 03 May 2023


Mogadishu – Marking World Press Freedom Day, the United Nations in Somalia today acknowledged the vital work carried out by the country’s media and reaffirmed its commitment to support efforts to promote and protect its civic space.
“The Somali media play an important role in keeping the public informed and educated, and in order for the media to carry out their duties effectively, they need to be able to work freely and safely. Freedom of expression and press freedom are critical to fostering a strong civic space. The United Nations recognizes the important work the Somali media play in this regard,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Somalia, Anita Kiki Gbeho.
Somali journalists and media workers have been threatened, attacked and harassed while working. In 2022, two journalists were killed and five others were injured in connection with their work. Furthermore, 74 journalists were arbitrarily arrested and detained in 2022.
 
The theme of this year's World Press Freedom Day is ‘Shaping a Future of Rights: Freedom of Expression as a Driver for All Other Human Rights,’ and it aims to highlight that professional reporting is necessary for the enjoyment of other human rights because it informs the public about issues and allows them to form their own opinions while also informing them of their rights.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/229985-world-press-freedom-day-un-encourages-safeguarding-media%E2%80%99s-vital-role-somalia




Date: 03 May 2023
Title: Secretary-General appoints Ms. Catriona Laing of the United Kingdom as Special Representative for Somalia and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia
Content: 03 May 2023
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres announced today the appointment of Catriona Laing of the United Kingdom as his new Special Representative for Somalia and Head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM). She succeeds James Swan of the United States of America, to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for his dedication and steadfast leadership of UNSOM during his tenure.
Ms. Laing brings to this position over 35 years of experience in diplomacy, development and international relations, including having held United Kingdom government policy roles in various departments at the national and international levels. Most recently, from November 2018 until April 2023, she served as British High Commissioner to Nigeria. Prior to that, she was the British Ambassador to Zimbabwe from 2014 until 2018.
In addition to her diplomatic roles, Ms. Laing has held several positions in government policy and international development, notably as Deputy Head of the Prime Minister’s Strategy Unit (2000-2004), Director for Human Rights at the Ministry of Justice (2009-2012) and as the Head of the Department for International Development in Sudan (2006-2009). She further headed the United Nations Development Office in Somalia from 1993 to 1994.
Ms. Catriona Laing holds an MSc degree in economics from the London School of Economics and Political Science and a Master’s in Business Administration from Cranfield University, both in the United Kingdom.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/231453-secretary-general-appoints-ms-catriona-laing-united-kingdom-special-representative-somalia




Date: 24 April 2023
Title: World Immunization Week 2023: Somalia resolves to work on “The Big Catch-Up
Content: 24 April 2023
MOGADISHU, 24 April 2023 – The Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) observed World Immunization Week (WIW) under the global theme of “The Big Catch-Up” with a resolve to strengthen primary healthcare and routine immunization across the country and ensure that no one is left behind.
World Immunization Week (WIW) 2023 is being observed during the global COVID-19 pandemic and hence it has been given the theme of ‘The Big Catch-Up’. WIW was initially endorsed in May 2012 by the World Health Assembly (WHO's decision-making body) and the first World Immunization Week was observed the same year across 180 member states of WHO.
The Federal Minister for Health Dr. Ali Haji, on this occasion expressed gratitude to the WHO and UNICEF for coordinating and collaborating with multiple partners and helping his government to catch up on lost progress in essential immunization, as a result of the global pandemic. Acknowledging the worst-ever drought gripping the country, resulting in huge population displacements and outbreaks of diseases, Dr. Haji hoped that “in line with the theme of the year “The Big Catch-Up,” WHO and UNICEF will continue to support the Ministry of Health for building a strong immunization delivery system, sustain the progress made over the past few years in preventing a backslide of childhood immunization in the country and more importantly accelerate the campaign of “The Big Catch Up” to get back on track to ensure more people, particularly children, are vaccinated and protected from preventable diseases.”
As per UNICEF and WHO estimates, routine immunization coverage in Somalia is low compared to other countries, and it is further impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Health in collaboration with WHO and UNICEF has made progress during 2022 to bridge these yawning gaps in immunization by scaling up its efforts to strengthen routine immunization across the country.
WHO Representative to Somalia, Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, while referring to the setbacks caused by global pandemic to routine immunization in Somalia, said that:
“Thousands of under five children have missed routine immunization during the past three years. The pandemic has disrupted the essential immunization services in the country. We may anticipate a backslide of over 20 per cent in routine immunization coverage unless we are able to rapidly catch up on lost progress.” He further said that “WHO in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and UNICEF, is planning for a “Big Catch-Up” by developing an immunization recovery plan to catch up on all those children who have missed out on their routine immunization in past 3 years, including all the women of childbearing age and adults. This is our chance to restore the immunization coverage to pre pandemic level and by working together with our partners, we can do it.”
The FMoH, WHO and UNICEF during 2022 have jointly implemented 4 rounds of accelerated immunization activities, five polio campaigns, eight campaigns for COVID-19, and nationwide integrated measles, tOPV, vitamin A and deworming campaigns. Additionally, WHO deployed more than 2,100 community health workers (CHWs) while UNICEF has deployed over 6,000 social mobilizers across the country to disseminate health messages to over 4.5 million people, as well as track and help immunize children who missed out on immunization. The community health workers have been working to find, register and refer the missed-out children and pregnant women to nearby health facilities and outreach sessions.
“UNICEF supports health systems for increasing routine immunization and integrated health and nutrition services for the children in Somalia, especially where coverage is low in hard-to-reach areas,” said UNICEF Deputy Representative, Nejmudin Kedir Bilal. “We are committed to continuing to support the Ministry of Health to generate more demand and acceptance of vaccines by the communities; to strengthen supply chain management system for vaccines and supplies; and to revamp management information system to track zero-dose children.”
The joint efforts made by the FMoH, WHO and UNICEF during the last integrated campaign helped to vaccinate more than 3.2 million under-five children against measles and 3.5 million against polio. During 2022, immunization programmes also identified and vaccinated over 84,500 zero-dose children and vaccinated around 30,000 women of child-bearing age with tetanus-diphtheria toxoids (Td2) by deploying integrated outreach teams. Somalia also managed to achieve the milestone of fully vaccinating over 41.7 per cent of the adult population against COVID-19 in 2022.
-------------------------
Note to Editors:
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, a widespread decline in childhood vaccinations has occurred globally, putting millions of additional children at risk for vaccine-preventable diseases. The continued decline in vaccination coverage since then was likely a result of many factors, including strained health systems caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, coupled with the primary focus being on the delivery of COVID-19 vaccines. These stresses have led to challenges with supply chains, human resources, and financing. Increasing vaccine misinformation, disinformation and hesitancy also likely contributed to declines in some countries. The risk of vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks is likely to persist if urgent action is not taken to recover immunization program losses, especially in countries like Somalia, where the health sector is under immense stress of dealing with multiple outbreaks of measles, cholera and cVDPV2.
------------------------
Links to related published material:
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/228916-world-immunization-week-2023-somalia-resolves-work-%E2%80%9C-big-catch




Date: 20 April 2023
Title: UN extends warm greetings to all Somalis for Eid-al-Fitr
Content: 20 April 2023
Mogadishu – The United Nations family in Somalia extends warm greetings and congratulations to all Somalis on the occasion of Eid-al-Fitr.
“As we come to the end of the holy month of Ramadan, the United Nations wishes a peaceful and safe Eid-al-Fitr to the people of Somalia as they celebrate this special period of togetherness,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Somalia, Anita Kiki Gbeho.
“The values which underpin Ramadan – from reflection to reconciliation, from charity to solidarity – also underpin Somalia’s progress and are shared by the United Nations,” she added. “We remain committed to supporting Somalis as they advance with their national priorities. Ciid Wanaagsan.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/228915-un-extends-warm-greetings-all-somalis-eid-al-fitr




Date: 04 April 2023
Title: On International Day for Mine Awareness, UN reaffirms commitment to a mine-free Somalia
Content: 04 April 2023
Mogadishu – Marking the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, the United Nations today reaffirmed its commitment to supporting efforts to rid Somalia of the threat from explosive ordnance.
“Whether measured in the number of casualties or the scope of economic impediment, the toll being paid by ordinary Somalis because of the dangers posed by explosive ordnance is too high a price to pay. The United Nations in Somalia remains committed to working with Somali authorities and local and international partners to protect civilians and foster peace, security and development in Somalia,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Deputy Representative for Somalia, Anita Kiki Gbeho.
“On this International Day, we especially recognise the courage and dedication of the mine action operators and their commitment to creating a safe and secure environment for all Somalis,” she added.
In 2022, more than 1,200 Somali civilians were killed or injured due to explosive ordnance, including explosive remnants of war, landmines and improvised explosive devices.
More generally, explosive ordnance contamination hinders economic recovery and development by making contaminated areas off-limits and preventing access to local livelihoods and essential services, as well as inhibiting people's freedom of movement. It also hampers the delivery of humanitarian assistance, which is vital in some areas of Somalia due to the ongoing drought.
The United Nations works hand-in-hand with the Federal Government of Somalia and its Federal Member State counterparts to mitigate the impact of explosive ordnance. At the same time, it works to enhance the capacity of Somali security institutions to lead and coordinate the mine action response. The support includes the provision of explosive ordnance risk reduction, survey and clearance activities, and advocacy and capacity development initiatives to promote adherence to international legal instruments.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/226964-international-day-mine-awareness-un-reaffirms-commitment-mine-free-somalia




Date: 20 March 2023
Title: New study finds that 43,000 “excess deaths” may have occurred in 2022 from the drought in Somalia
Content: 20 March 2023
Mogadishu, 20 March 2023 – A new report released today by the Federal Ministry of Health & Human Services, WHO and UNICEF suggests that an estimated 43,000 excess deaths might have occurred in 2022 in Somalia resulting from a deepening drought when compared with 2017 and 2018 drought crisis. Half of these deaths might have occurred among children under the age of 5.
The findings of the report were released today by the Minister of Health of the Federal Government of Somalia, Dr Ali Hadji Adam Abubakar, in the presence of Mr Adam Abdelmoula, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Ms Wafaa Saeed, UNICEF Country Representative of Somalia and Dr Sk Md Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Representative for Somalia.
For the first time, a scenario-based forecast model was also developed from the same study to enable anticipatory action and avert drought-related deaths. The forecast spanning from January to June 2023, estimates that 135 people might also die each day due to the crisis, with total deaths projected to fall between 18,100 and 34,200 during this period. These estimates suggest that, although famine has been averted for now, the crisis is far from over and is already more severe than the 2017-2018 drought crisis.
These figures are derived from a statistical model which estimated that the crude death rate increased across Somalia from 0.33 to 0.38 deaths per 10 000 person-days over the period January–December 2022; the rate in children younger than 5 years was nearly double these levels. For 2023, the crude death rate is forecasted to reach 0.42 deaths per 10 000 person-days by June 2023.
Commissioned by UNICEF Regional Office and WHO country office of Somalia and carried out by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and Imperial College London, the study presents retrospective estimates of mortality across Somalia from January to December 2022. The highest death rates were estimated to have occurred in south-central Somalia, especially the areas around Bay, Bakool and Banadir regions, the current epicenter of the drought.
The study, the first in a planned series, received support from the Federal Ministry of Health & Human Services of the Federal Government of Somalia and Food Security and Nutrition Analysis Unit of Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, was funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office of the United Kingdom.
While releasing the findings of the report, Dr Ali Hadji Adam Abubakar commented,
“We continue to be concerned about the level and scale of the public health impact of this deepening and protracted food crisis in Somalia. At the same time, we are optimistic that if we can sustain our ongoing and scaled-up health and nutrition actions and humanitarian response to save lives and protect the health of our vulnerable, we can push back the risk of famine forever. Else, those vulnerable and marginalized will pay the price of this crisis with their lives. We, therefore, urge all our partners and donors to continue to support the health sector in building a resilient health system that works for everyone and not for the few. Building a healthier and happier world for all Somalis remains at the heart of our government.”
WHO Representative to Somalia and Head of Mission, Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik while commenting on the study findings, said that
“We are racing against time to prevent deaths and save lives that are avoidable. We have seen, deaths and diseases thrive when hunger and food crises prolong. We will see more people dying from the disease than from hunger and malnutrition combined if we do not act now. The cost of our inaction will mean that children, women and other vulnerable people will pay with their lives while we hopelessly, helplessly witness the tragedy unfold.” Dr Malik added that “From the very beginning of this drought, World Health Organization (WHO) has clearly stated that the drought is a health crisis as much as it is a food and climate crisis. WHO’s main concern has been to prevent excess deaths directly or indirectly attributed to drought with a special focus on women and under five children. As such, WHO has stepped up its life-saving integrated health interventions throughout 2022 and would continue to do so in 2023 to avert every preventable death in Somalia.”
“These results present a grim picture of the devastation brought on children and their families by the drought,” said UNICEF Representative Wafaa Saeed. “We are saddened by these deaths, and we know there could have been many more deaths had humanitarian assistance not been scaled up to reach affected communities. We must continue to save lives by preventing and treating malnutrition, providing safe and clean water, improving access to life-saving health services, immunizing children against deadly diseases such as measles, and providing critical protection services.”
Somalia is enduring five consecutive seasons of failed rains, the longest in recent memory, which has left five million people in acute food insecurity and nearly two million children at risk of malnutrition. The United Nations needs more than US$2.6 billion to meet the priority needs of 7.6 million people in 2023.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/224951-new-study-finds-43000-%E2%80%9Cexcess-deaths%E2%80%9D-may-have-occurred-2022-drought-somalia




Date: 08 March 2023
Title: On International Women’s Day, UN congratulates Somali women for their contribution to building a better Somalia
Content: 08 March 2023
Mogadishu – On the occasion of International Women’s Day, the United Nations in Somalia today congratulated Somali women for their continued contributions to their country’s development.
“From peacebuilding and reconciliation efforts, to the stabilization activities in areas recently recovered from Al-Shabaab control and the humanitarian response to the ongoing drought – Somali women continue to contribute significantly in all facets of public life,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Somalia, Anita Kiki Gbeho. Somali women’s contributions include organising the provision of humanitarian support – such as food and other essential supplies, and accommodation – for people affected by conflict and the long-running drought.
The United Nations in Somalia recognises the ongoing efforts of Somali women over the years and urges all Somali stakeholders, particularly the country’s leaders, to ensure greater inclusion, voice and participation of women in all national and state-level bodies as part of efforts to realise and sustain peace, prosperity and development in Somalia.
The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is ‘DigitALL: Innovation and Technology for Gender Equality,’ and aims to highlight the importance of digital technology as an opportunity to narrow gender gaps by enhancing women’s access. If women are unable to access the Internet and do not feel safe online, they will not be able to develop the necessary digital skills to engage in digital spaces.
The United Nations in Somalia encourages Somali women to embrace the use of technology in their work to help build a better Somalia. Somalia's rate of internet usage has been climbing steadily over the past few years and rose by 16.4 per cent from 2021 to 2022, according to digital usage tracking firm DataReportal.
International Women’s Day has been observed around the world since 1975 when the United Nations started marking the occasion to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The day marks a call to action for accelerating gender equality.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/224950-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-un-congratulates-somali-women-their-contribution-building-better




Date: 08 February 2023
Title: Humanitarian partners seek US$2.6 billion to assist 7.6 million people in Somalia
Content: 08 February 2023
Mogadishu, 8 February 2023 – Today, the United Nations and humanitarian partners in Somalia together with Federal and State Governments released the 2023 Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) for Somalia, which seeks US$2.6 billion to assist about 7.6 million people. An estimated 8.25 million people, nearly half of the population, need immediate lifesaving humanitarian and protection assistance. Famine is a strong possibility from April to June and beyond if humanitarian assistance is not sustained and if the next rains underperform, as current forecasts indicate.
“The efforts of local communities and the scale up of humanitarian assistance prevented famine thresholds from being surpassed in 2022, but millions of lives remain on the line,” said Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia.
With five consecutive poor rainy seasons, the longest and most severe drought in Somalia’s recent history is devastating the country. The drought has displaced more than 1.4 million people and killed at least 3.5 million livestock, destroying livelihoods and reducing children’s access to milk. Even though technical famine thresholds have not been reached, the situation is extremely alarming: prolonged and extreme conditions have resulted in higher-than-normal deaths and excess mortality will continue to accumulate unless assistance is further scaled up and sustained in crucial sectors.
Amid an anticipated reduction in funding for humanitarian assistance, 8.3 million people will likely experience high levels of acute food insecurity between April and June, including more than 727,000 who are likely to face catastrophic conditions. About 8 million people lack access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene services. Reported cholera and measles cases have surged compared to recent years, and acute malnutrition has increased. Conflict and insecurity continue to drive needs and hinder humanitarian access.
“The people of Somalia are paying the price for a climate emergency they did very little to create create,” said Mr. Salah Jama, Deputy Prime Minister, Federal Government of Somalia. “The Federal and State governments, local communities and the Somali private sector and diaspora are working with the international community to assist the most vulnerable people in the areas with highest needs. I urge all partners to support these lifesaving efforts.”
Humanitarian organizations, local communities and government authorities have ramped up responses and reached 7.3 million people in 2022, but they need additional resources and unhindered access to people in need.
“I thank our donors who generously funded the 2022 HRP and urge more donors to step up and frontload their support. Any delay in assistance is a matter of life or death for people in need,” said Mr. Abdelmoula. “We must also invest in livelihoods, resilience, infrastructure development, climate adaptation and durable solutions to break the cycle of chronic and recurrent humanitarian crises in Somalia and ensure that those affected can adapt and thrive.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/218500-humanitarian-partners-seek-us26-billion-assist-76-million-people-somalia




Date: 01 January 2023
Title: International partners call for calm and restraint in Laascaanood
Content: 01 January 2023
International partners* are concerned about the violence in Laascaanood resulting in civilian deaths and casualties.
Mogadishu – International partners* are concerned about the violence in Laascaanood resulting in civilian deaths and casualties.
Preventing violence and ensuring the protection of civilians is paramount. We call for calm and restraint. Tensions must be resolved through de-escalation and dialogue.
*African Union Transition Mission in Somalia (ATMIS), Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, EU Delegation, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Qatar, Russia, Sudan, Sweden, Türkiye, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States and United Nations.
Top Stories
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/215252-international-partners-call-calm-and-restraint-laascaanood




Date: 03 November 2022
Title: Somalia Humanitarian Fund allocates US$17 million for famine prevention
Content: 03 November 2022
The Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, launched a new allocation of US$17 million from the Somalia Humanitarian Fund (SHF) to provide immediate assistance to communities in areas at highest risk of famine.
“Famine is knocking on the door in Somalia and millions of people are at risk of starvation unless humanitarian assistance is scaled up and sustained,” said Mr. Abdelmoula.
“This allocation is critical because the number of people affected by drought has more than doubled since the beginning of 2022 and humanitarians urgently require additional funds to meet increased needs.The drought in Somalia has affected at least 7.8 million people, including more than one million people displaced from their homes in search of water, food, and pasture."
The $17 million allocation will fund immediate life-saving activities at a time when humanitarian operations are struggling to keep up with the scale, scope and severity of needs. The allocation will promote an area-based integrated response and focus on the worst-affected communities in Bay, Bakool and Mudug/Galmudug. Target districts will be prioritized based on needs, response gaps, partner presence, accessibility, and existing opportunities to leverage ongoing inter-sectoral interventions.
The allocation will complement the ongoing SHF reserve allocation of $9.5 million that was launched in July and supplement resources from the Central Emergency Response Fund that are providing unconditional cash transfers in tandem with emergency livelihood inputs, health, camp coordination and protection activities. The SHF’s comparative advantage in providing funds to national NGOs will ensure the presence of partners in key drought hotspot locations, advance localization and strengthen capacity building of local partners. The revised 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) requires $2.27 billion to respond to the needs of 7.6 million people in Somalia. Donors have contributed $1.07 billion (47 per cent), enabling partners to reach about 6.5 million people with some form of assistance, but more funds are required to keep up with increasing needs, as we are in the middle of a fifth consecutive failed rainy season with a possibility of a sixth at the beginning of next year.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/206425-somalia-humanitarian-fund-allocates-us17-million-famine-prevention




Date: 30 October 2022
Title: ​Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Somalia
Content: 30 October 2022
The Secretary-General is deeply saddened by yesterday’s attack in Mogadishu, which killed over 100 people and wounded many more. He extends his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, which include United Nations staff, as well as the Government and people of Somalia. He wishes a speedy recovery to those injured. The Secretary-General strongly condemns these heinous attacks and reiterates that the United Nations stands in solidarity with Somalia against violent extremism. He pledges continued support for a peaceful and prosperous Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/205344-%E2%80%8Bstatement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-somalia




Date: 18 October 2022
Title: IOM, World Bank, Government of Somalia to Provide Lasting Solutions for 71,000 People Affected by Drought
Content: 18 October 2022
Mogadishu – The International Organization for Migration (IOM), the World Bank and the Federal Government of Somalia launched a new USD 20 million project to tackle the pressing needs of 71,000 displaced and vulnerable people affected by the historic drought and a deepening hunger crisis.
The project will provide emergency relief and enhance abilities to recover and adapt through long-term housing solutions and infrastructure development.
“The project comes at a critical time as the most severe drought in four decades pushes millions of people further into poverty, starvation and displacement, with thousands at risk of eviction,” said Ewa Naqvi, IOM Deputy Chief of Mission in Somalia during the launch of the project.
Having typically left rural areas, most displaced people live in informal settlements located on the outskirts of cities where they face also fear and intimidation. Unclear tenure arrangements put displaced populations at high risk of forced evictions. So far in 2022, there have been more than 29,000 recorded forced evictions in urban centres and around a quarter of the people evicted were displaced by the current drought.
IOM is leading the Danwadaag Durable Solutions Consortium – a group of local and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) focused on providing long-term solutions to protracted displacement – and will work under the leadership of the Federal Government of Somalia to provide critical services to communities impacted by the drought, which has already displaced over 1.1 million people.
"As part of our Government's response to the drought crisis, my ministry will provide emergency support to around 71,000 people in the municipalities of Garowe, Mogadishu and Kismayo. IOM and its partners will implement the USD 20 million project to urgently address the water, sanitation, shelter, health and nutritional needs of drought-affected families,” said H.E. Ismail Abdirahman Sheikh Bashir, Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Housing during the launch.
Those displaced during this two-year-long drought join millions of other internally displaced persons (IDPs) living in precarious conditions following decades of conflict, economic crisis and climatic extremes and likely to never return home. One of the most vulnerable groups in Somalia, displaced people face limited access to basic services and struggle to make a sufficient living.
The Somalia Urban Resilience project will step in to support targeted displaced families and improve relationships with host communities before evictions take place.
"The ability to help municipalities address critical lifesaving needs of people affected by drought is a significant step forward in the World Bank’s objective to provide holistic support to the Somali government. We look forward to a productive collaboration with the Danwadaag Consortium, led by IOM,” said Kristina Svensson, World Bank Country Manager for Somalia.
The Somalia Urban Resilience Project will also provide housing solutions including title deeds and land where families at risk of eviction can permanently settle and restart their lives, as well as legal support on rights and lease agreements.
The project will focus on increasing access to health services and engage community members to build infrastructure such as improved shelters, boreholes, latrines, streetlights and drainage systems. A key aspect of the project will involve strengthening the Government´s capacity to deliver essential services to people across Somalia. This project also responds to the implementation of the IOM Strategy on Migration, Environment and Climate Change 2021-2030.
The tailored and inclusive services under this project will also reduce marginalization, promote sustainable integration and effectively lay the foundations for increased resilience in Somalia´s urban centres.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/204397-iom-world-bank-government-somalia-provide-lasting-solutions-71000-people-affected-drought




Date: 20 September 2022
Title: The Netherlands adds $2.1 million to UNFPA’s Somali Youth Empowerment project
Content: 20 September 2022
Mogadishu: The Kingdom of the Netherlands has provided UNFPA Somalia with 2.1 million US Dollars to support the “Accelerated Socio-economic Empowerment of Youth in Somalia” project. The project is part of the European Union (EU) funded Dalbile Youth Initiative.
The Dalbile Youth Initiative promotes a holistic approach to youth empowerment that goes beyond just employability, it fosters an overall enabling environment that improves the lives of Somali youth. This valued financial boost to the project will support the provision of equipment and the construction of youth-friendly spaces across Somalia. These spaces provide opportunities for the youth to engage in peace-building, skills development, income-generation, entrepreneurship, sports and culture.
Niyi Ojuolape, Country Representative for UNFPA Somalia welcomed the new funding,
“This new funding demonstrates not just the trust of the Netherlands government and indeed the EU in the capabilities of the Somali youth, but also the impact and success of the project’s activities, thus far. We are committed to ensuring that the Somali youth, especially young girls, have safe spaces to realize their full potential as productive and independent agents of positive change.”
In August 2020, the EU provided 6 Million Euros for the Dalbile Youth Initiative, projected to span over 3.5 years. Since its launch, the project has transformed the lives of 5,000 young people through bootcamps; entrepreneurship, social enterprises, and financial literacy/management training; mentorship programmes; future ready skills and start-up grants.
The project also initiated full-fledged youth friendly spaces in Mogadishu, Hargeisa, Bossaso, and Buhodle. These serve as co-working spaces and provide incubation, research and acceleration services for new start-ups.
Dalbile Youth Initiative partners with the Federal Government of Somalia and Federal Member States. In this project, the EU and the Netherlands are working together in partnership to jointly support sustainable recovery and the achievement of SDGs in Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/200049-netherlands-adds-21-million-unfpa%E2%80%99s-somali-youth-empowerment-project




Date: 28 August 2022
Title: Somalia receives 1.6 million J&J COVID-19 vaccine doses from Sweden and the Czech Republic
Content: 28 August 2022
28 August 2022, MOGADISHU – On 27 August 2022, Somalia received 1,645,600 doses of the Johnson and Johnson (J&J) COVID-19 vaccines from the Government of Sweden and the Government of the Czech Republic. The vaccines were donated by both countries through the COVAX Facility. So far, around 2.3 million people have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and over 1.9 million people partially vaccinated.
On this occasion, HE Dr Ali Haji Adam Abubakar, the Minister of Health and Human Services of the Federal Government of Somalia said, “We would like to express our sincere gratitude to the Government of Sweden and the Czech Republic for supporting us to protect Somalis against COVID-19. The vaccines we have received will indeed save lives, enable us to create more equity between Somalis of different backgrounds, and contribute to our national health goals to ensure we leave no one behind. This is even more important now as the country faces a severe drought and mass displacement, leaving more people vulnerable to diseases.”
The ongoing drought has brought the country to the brink of famine, and left 7.7 million people in need of humanitarian assistance and protection, and around 1 million people internally displaced.
“I am very proud that Sweden has yet again proved to be standing in solidarity with the people of Somalia to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The 1,360,800 doses donated by the Swedish Government now will go a long way in helping Somalia getting more people vaccinated. In addition to the vaccine donation through COVAX, Sweden also has a long-term commitment and support to the health sector in Somalia, including financial support for health systems strengthening channeled through WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA and Save the Children”, says the Swedish Ambassador to Somalia, Mr. Per Lindgärde.
Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Representative to Somalia said, “Overall, 15% of Somalia’s population has been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 so far and 12% are partially vaccinated. Together with the Government, donors and other partners, we have used creative ways and impactful innovations to reach the most vulnerable people, prevent further spread of COVID-19 and leverage on these efforts to rebuild health systems. However, we still have a long way to go. Somalia’s aim is to vaccinate at least 40% of people by the end of 2022.”
“Somalia has made tangible progress in procuring safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines. UNICEF continues to work closely with the Government and partners to ensure communities are aware of the benefits of being vaccinated,” says Wafaa Saeed, UNICEF Somalia Representative. “The humanitarian situation calls for urgent measures to scale-up COVID-19 vaccination and other lifesaving humanitarian assistance, especially for IDPs, rural communities and nomads.”
Some of the challenges slowing down COVID-19 vaccination in Somalia include limited access to specific areas due to insecurity or logistical challenges.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/197063-somalia-receives-16-million-jj-covid-19-vaccine-doses-sweden-and-czech-republic




Date: 21 August 2022
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Somalia
Content: 21 August 2022
New York - The Secretary-General strongly condemns the terrorist attack on the Hayat hotel in Mogadishu on 19 August. He expresses his deep condolences to the families of the victims as well as the Government and people of Somalia. He also wishes a swift recovery to the injured.
The Secretary-General reiterates the solidarity of the United Nations with the Government and the people of Somalia in their fight against terrorism and their march towards peace.
Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesperson for the Secretary-General
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/195926-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-somalia




Date: 21 August 2022
Title: UN stands in solidarity with Somalis on International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism
Content: 21 August 2022
Mogadishu – Marking the International Day of Remembrance and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism, the United Nations in Somalia today honoured the many Somalis who have been affected by such violence and urged that they and their families be provided both immediate and longer-term support.
“The United Nations stands in solidarity with all Somali victims and survivors of terrorism as they heal from their trauma, along with their families and communities,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“Somalia has made commendable progress on its path to peace and stability, and amid that progress, the voices of survivors must be heard and acknowledged, and their rights upheld – the past weekend's terrorist violence in Mogadishu is a stark reminder of just how vital this is," he added.
The UN General Assembly established the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism in 2017 to honour and support the victims and survivors of terrorism and to promote and protect the full enjoyment of their human rights and fundamental freedoms.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/195927-un-stands-solidarity-somalis-international-day-remembrance-and-tribute-victims-terrorism




Date: 02 August 2022
Title: Somalia Humanitarian Fund allocates US$9.5 million for famine prevention
Content: 02 August 2022
"Somalia is on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe, yet the funding needed to respond to rapidly growing needs remains vastly insufficient to avert the worst outcomes"
Mogadishu, 2 August 2022 – Today, the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, launched a new allocation of US$9.5 million from the Somalia Humanitarian Fund (SHF) to provide immediate assistance to communities in areas at highest risk of famine.
“The risk of famine and number of people getting displaced has alarmingly increased,” said Mr. Abdelmoula. “Somalia is on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe, yet the funding needed to respond to rapidly growing needs remains vastly insufficient to avert the worst outcomes.”
The risk of famine in Somalia has intensified following a historic fourth failed rainy season, and now catastrophic hunger looms. The worsening drought conditions have affected 7 million people and displaced over 900,000 from their homes in search of water, food, and pasture: the majority being women and children. Hunger is rising; about 45 per cent of the population are classified as acutely food insecure, with 213,000 facing catastrophic food insecurity.
This allocation will be vital in scaling up life-saving responses to the needs of worst-affected communities in Bay and Bakool regions (South West State). The risk of famine is the highest in the two regions and particularly in Bay where for the first time since 2017, the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification has confirmed pockets of catastrophic food insecurity (IPC 5). The region is experiencing a massive influx of Internally Displaced Persons with highest needs. The allocation will promote an integrated response to prevent the worst outcomes through cash for food, emergency livelihood inputs, provision of essential health, nutrition, and water as well as sanitation services. In addition, it will support protection assistance for highly vulnerable households.
The SHF allocation complements the $14 million Rapid Response grant from the UN Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) in May 2022 that aimed to address the worsening food crisis and multi-sectoral needs of communities severely affected by the drought.
The 2022 Drought Response and Famine Prevention Plan (DRP), published on 24 June as a subset of the Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP), outlines the humanitarian community’s detailed plans and financial requirements needed to prevent famine in Somalia. Between May and December 2022, the DRP targets more than 6.4 million people and requires US$993.3 million. To date, $621 million has been reported for the Somalia operation, representing 42 per cent of the HRP ask and 62 per cent of the DRP ask.
“We are racing against the clock to reach the most vulnerable and to prevent the loss of lives and livelihoods. I urge everyone to step up our collective efforts to help the people of Somalia,” said Mr. Abdelmoula.
For more information, please contact
Afifa Ismail, SHF Manager a.i Head of Humanitarian Financing Unit, afifa@un.org, Cell +254(0)736175985
Erich Opolot Ogoso, Head of Communications, ogoso@un.org, Cell +254 720766587
OCHA press releases are available at www.unocha.org or www.relief.int
The Somalia Humanitarian Fund (SHF) and the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) are managed by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). They allow donors to pool their contributions to support the highest priority humanitarian work. Combining flexibility and strategic focus, the funds ensure timely allocation and disbursement of resources, enable humanitarian action and strengthen coordination. For more information about the SHF visit www.unocha.org/somalia/shf or follow @SHF_Somalia; for more information about CERF, please visit www.unocha.org/cerf or follow @UNCERF. For Somalia crisis overview visit www.unocha.org/somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/193880-somalia-humanitarian-fund-allocates-us95-million-famine-prevention




Date: 19 June 2022
Title: On International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict, UN calls for ensuring protection for Somali survivors
Content: 19 June 2022
Mogadishu, 19 June 2022 – Marking the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict, the UN in Somalia today urged that the legal and social protection mechanisms for survivors of such violence, especially women and children, be strengthened.
“The human rights of the survivors of sexual violence in conflict need to be protected, and for this to happen it is essential to reinforce the legal and social protection legislative framework in Somalia, particularly for women and children,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“I also call upon Somali authorities to ensure that tools for the support of survivors of conflict-related sexual violence include economic opportunities. It is through economic empowerment that survivors will be able to sustain themselves and their families, and eradicate the stigma associated with enduring such violence,” Mr. Swan said.
To this end, the UN in Somalia’s efforts in the area of sexual violence in conflict include running specialized holistic support centres for women formerly associated with Al-Shabaab, where after initial counselling and psycho-social support, the women undergo a period of vocational training with the aim of enhancing their opportunities for economic self-sustenance for themselves and their families.
The UN General Assembly proclaimed 19 June of each year as the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict in 2015. The observance aims to raise awareness of the need to put an end to conflict-related sexual violence, to honour the victims and survivors of sexual violence around the world and to pay tribute to all those who have courageously devoted their lives to and lost their lives in standing up for the eradication of these crimes.
The theme of this year’s Day is ‘Prevention as Protection: Enhancing structural and operational prevention of conflict-related sexual violence.’
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/186871-international-day-elimination-sexual-violence-conflict-un-calls-ensuring-protection-somali




Date: 06 June 2022
Title: As rains fail again, catastrophic hunger looms over Somalia
Content: 06 June 2022
Mogadishu– A historic fourth consecutive failed rainy season, skyrocketing prices and an underfunded humanitarian response have resulted in a 160 percent increase in people facing catastrophic levels of food insecurity, starvation and disease in Somalia. With no end in sight for the devastating drought affecting the country, the risk of famine looms larger than ever. An urgent increase in support from the international community is essential to avert famine.
A new report from the Famine Early Warning Network and the Food Security and Nutrition Analysis Unit of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, based on a rapid assessment by multiple United Nations agencies, shows that 7.1 million Somalis (close to 50 percent of the population) now face crisis-level food insecurity or worse through at least September 2022. Of those, 213,000 people face catastrophic hunger and starvation, a drastic increase from the 81,000 forecast in April. More areas are at risk of famine, particularly in the south of the country in regions where insecurity and conflict makes humanitarian access more challenging.
These figures reflect a food security situation that is expected to deteriorate rapidly over the coming months. United Nations agencies and partners are now focusing their limited resources on famine prevention to protect the country’s most vulnerable, as meteorological organizations warn that another below-average rainy season could follow later in the year.
“We are staring at a potential calamity; failure to act now will be tragic for scores of families in Somalia,” said Adam Abdelmoula, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator. “Somalia is in danger of entering an unprecedented fifth consecutive failed rainy season, meaning hundreds of thousands of people face the risk of famine. Famine cost the lives of 260,000 Somalis in 2010-2011.This cannot be allowed to happen again in 2022. It is urgent that more is done to avert this risk and done now,” he said.
Collectively, humanitarian agencies have reached 2.8 million people between January and April 2022 with lifesaving and livelihood assistance through drought assistance and famine prevention programmes, but the new assessment clearly indicates that the scale of assistance currently being delivered and funding from the international community is not yet sufficient to protect those most at risk.
Food prices affecting the most vulnerable
Somali families are increasingly unable to cope with soaring food prices as local food has become scarce due to consecutive seasons of poor or failed domestic production, livestock deaths, and imported food prices reaching record levels – in part because of supply chain impacts due to conflict in Ukraine. In parts of the country, food prices have risen 140 to 160 percent, leaving poor families hungry and destitute.
"We must act immediately to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe. The lives of the most vulnerable are already at risk from malnutrition and hunger, and we cannot wait for a declaration of famine to act," said El-Khidir Daloum, WFP’s Country Director in Somalia. "It's a race against time to prevent famine and WFP is scaling up as much as possible, prioritizing our limited resources to save those most at risk. But as these new figures show, there is an urgent need for more resources to meet this escalating hunger crisis," he said.
Around 3 million livestock have died due to the drought since mid-2021, and the decline in meat and milk production has also led to worsening malnutrition, particularly among young children in pastoral areas who are dependent on local supply. As of May 2022, an estimated 1.5 million children under the age of five years face acute malnutrition through the end of the year, including 386,400 who are likely to be severely malnourished – an increase of 55,000 compared to previous estimates.
The malnutrition crisis is likely to worsen as the nutrition situation deteriorates further in the affected areas, with children and vulnerable people the hardest hit. "This is a child crisis. It’s not only about water or nutrition, but also about children losing education, falling vulnerable to child protection issues and having poor health; all impacting their future,” said Angela Kearney, UNICEF Somalia Representative. UNICEF has supported the treatment of more than 114,000 children with severe acute malnutrition between January and April 2022. “We are treating children but now we need further funding to prevent a famine and protect the future of every Somali child," she said.
Grim situation as humanitarian funding falls far short
The grim food security situation is unfolding as humanitarian funding from the international community has so far fallen short of coming close to what actors need to avert a famine in the country. The 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan is currently only 18% funded. “The support required has not yet fully materialized, and hundreds of thousands of Somalis are at a very real risk of starvation and death,” said Etienne Peterschmitt, FAO’s Representative in Somalia.
“It’s a tragedy to see the level of distress that rural communities in particular are experiencing, and we are being limited in what we can do to prevent this extraordinary suffering. We’re calling on the international community to act fast while we still have some hope of preventing collapse of livelihoods, further and potentially massive population displacement from rural areas to IDP camps and widespread famine in Somalia,” he said.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/186086-rains-fail-again-catastrophic-hunger-looms-over-somalia




Date: 10 May 2022
Title: International partners welcome plans to conclude Somali elections this week
Content: 10 May 2022
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* welcome the announcement by the parliamentary organizing committee that the election of the President will take place on Sunday, 15 May 2022.  We are encouraged by the positive progress in registering presidential candidates and other preparations for this electoral deadline to be met.
There is no justification for any further delay.  With both chambers of Parliament sworn in and fully functional, any outstanding electoral issue should be resolved by the duly elected parliamentary leaders.
We urge Somalia’s leaders to conclude this final stage of the electoral process swiftly, peacefully and credibly so that attention can turn to domestic and state-building priorities.
*African Union Transition Mission in Somalia (ATMIS), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States and United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/181248-international-partners-welcome-plans-conclude-somali-elections-week




Date: 09 May 2022
Title: WHO and the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation seek to improve resilience of Somalia’s health system by enhancing essential health services for hospitals in under-served state
Content: 09 May 2022
Mogadishu, 9 May 2022 – In their continued and collective efforts to improve health system resilience, the Ministry of Health and Human Services of the Federal Government of Somalia, World Health Organization (WHO) and the Embassy of Italy have joined forces and officially launched a €3 million multi-year project entitled ‘Improving essential health services in Somalia using a secondary hospital-based care approach.’
The project is designed to improve delivery of essential health services at the secondary level care in Somalia by focusing on building strong and resilient hospital-based care at Hudur General Hospital in South West state and Dhusamareb General Hospital in Galmudug state – both of which are currently unable to meet the health care demand and needs of populations within their respective catchment areas. Developed under the leadership of the Federal Ministry of Health, in close partnership with WHO and the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), the project aims to achieve universal health coverage (UHC) through strengthening hospital-based care for integrated delivery of secondary and critical care services, as well as improving hospital management system for better stewardship and effective service delivery.
“We would like to express our sincere thanks to the Government of Italy for their very valuable support as they are a key donor supporting secondary care and hospital management in Somalia. This support will help Somalia to make strides in the provision of critical care for patients and strengthening of referral systems, as well as for improving the overall credibility of and trust in the public health facilities –a crucial goal for Somalia’s health system,” said HE Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, Federal Minister of Health and Human Services.
“In 2019, only 27% of Somalia’s population had access to essential health services,” said Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Representative and Head of Mission to Somalia. “Thanks to the support from the Government of Italy and AICS, with this project we will have the opportunity to change this narrative by offering crucial, life-saving services to more Somalis, particularly those who are vulnerable and live in remote locations. Moreover, the services offered are aligned to the revised essential package of health services for Somalia.”
“The project will contribute to the humanitarian-development-peace nexus (HDPN) in Somalia, by linking the short-term goal of improving secondary level care to the long-term development goal of the government-to improve essential health services. It will also foster peace and development among the communities being served by contributing to addressing the root causes of tension and marginalization, and increasing health equity,” said HE Alberto Vecchi, Ambassador of Italy to Somalia.
Over a 2-year period, among other things, this project will aim to: optimize basic primary care services; fill in existing gaps in the provision of specialized, secondary health care (e.g. emergency, critical, surgical care); offer referral services to at least 5 districts in each state; use solar power to deliver oxygen; refine waste management systems; ensure gender balance in capacity development and employment; improve hospital management and ownership by the local health authorities; and improve the capability of health personnel to better respond to emergencies. Overall, and in addition to being in line with the new Essential Package of Health Services (EPHS) 2020 for Somalia, this project will complement efforts towards achieving the target of UHC and ensuring health for all.
The official announcement follows a previous signing ceremony and a high-level commitment ceremony held on 21 April and 11 January 2022, respectively, in Mogadishu. During the latter, the Federal Ministry of Health, WHO, Embassy of Italy and Mr Luca Maestripieri, Director of AICS and Minister Plenipotentiary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, collectively agreed to work together in ‘Improving essential health services in Somalia using a secondary hospital-based care approach’ into the future across Somalia.
This new and vital multi-year project stems from a continued partnership established between WHO, the Embassy of Italy in Mogadishu and AICS Somalia, whereby a total of €1.4 million has been provided to WHO since 2019 to support emergency response activities, as well as mental health and psychosocial support services for vulnerable populations and victims of improvised explosive devices at Hudur General Hospital.
For additional information, please contact:
Khadar Hussein Mohamud, Head of Coordination and Communications, Ministry of Health, Federal Government of Somalia < coordination@moh.gov.so>   >
Massimiliano Bertollo, Deputy Head of Mission, Embassy of Italy in Mogadishu < massimiliano.bertollo@esteri.it>  >
Santa Molè, Director, AICS Somalia <  segreteria.mogadiscio@aics.gov.it >
Kyle DeFreitas, Lead – External Relations, WHO Somalia < defreitask@who.int>  >
Fouzia Bano, Communications Officer / Chief of Staff a.i., WHO Somalia < banof@who.int> >
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/183040-who-and-italian-agency-development-cooperation-seek-improve-resilience-somalia%E2%80%99s-health




Date: 04 May 2022
Title: On World Press Freedom Day, UN emphasizes vital role of Somali media
Content: 04 May 2022
Mogadishu – On the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, the United Nations in Somalia emphasizes the vital role that the country’s media play in Somali society and the need to ensure their ability to carry out their work safely and freely.
“Somalia’s media are a key component for the growth of democracy, and they need to be able to go about their work free from threats, intimidation and harm so they can carry out their important work,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
Journalists in Somalia remain under physical threat in many areas. Since May last year, one journalist has been killed and two others injured. Moreover, 64 journalists and media workers have been arrested while carrying out their work.
The UN General Assembly proclaimed World Press Freedom Day in 1993, with 3 May designated for the observance to mark the anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration, a landmark statement on the link between the freedom to seek, impart and receive information and the public good. The Day acts as a reminder to governments of the need to respect their commitment to press freedom, as well as celebrate the fundamental principles of press freedom, assess the state of press freedom throughout the world, defend the media from attacks on their independence, and pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in the line of duty.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/180376-world-press-freedom-day-un-emphasizes-vital-role-somali-media




Date: 01 May 2022
Title: UN wishes peaceful Eid-al-Fitr to all Somalis
Content: 01 May 2022
Mogadishu – The United Nations family in Somalia extends warm greetings to all Somalis on the occasion of Eid-al-Fitr.
“The United Nations wishes a peaceful and safe Eid-al-Fitr to the people of Somalia as we come to the end of the holy month of Ramadan,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“The values and lessons of Ramadan – reflection, self-discipline, charity, and communal solidarity – are foundations on which to build Somalia’s progress and development. We will continue to support Somalis as they advance their national priorities. Ciid Wanaagsan,” he added.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/180378-un-wishes-peaceful-eid-al-fitr-all-somalis




Date: 28 April 2022
Title: International partners welcome election of Somalia’s parliamentary leadership
Content: 28 April 2022
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* welcome the successful elections for leadership positions in the Upper House on 26 April 2022 and the House of the People on 27-28 April 2022. We congratulate the newly elected Speakers and Deputy Speakers as they assume their important responsibilities at this critical moment for Somalia.
After the protracted delays and obstacles in choosing the members of parliament, the election of the parliamentary leadership is a major achievement.  We appreciate the efforts of all Somalis who contributed to completion of these parliamentary votes.
We urge that election of the President now be completed promptly, peacefully, and credibly, so that Somalia’s elected leaders can address national priorities for the benefit of all its citizens.
*African Union Transition Mission in Somalia (ATMIS), Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Kenya, League of Arab States (LAS), Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States and United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/180379-international-partners-welcome-election-somalia%E2%80%99s-parliamentary-leadership




Date: 24 April 2022
Title: Immunization efforts need a shot in the arm say Somalia’s Government and UN
Content: 24 April 2022
MOGADISHU - While marking World Immunization Week this year, Somalia’s Federal Ministry of Health and Human Services, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) jointly urged humanitarian partners, local private agencies and donors to help boost immunization efforts and outreach across Somalia. This message is in line with the theme for World Immunization Week, 2022, running from 24-30 April, which is ‘Long life for all – in pursuit of a long life well lived.’
World Immunization Week 2022 aims to spur greater engagement around immunization globally, to reiterate the importance of vaccination and improve the health and wellbeing of everyone, everywhere.
In line with this global call and taking into account only 9% of Somalis have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, Minister of Health, the Federal Government of Somalia said, “In 2020, the world witnessed a pause on many health services due to the COVID-19 pandemic. By producing vaccines at record speed, alongside other measures, we have now seen how life is resuming slowly again. However, in developing countries such as Somalia, a majority of the population still remains to be vaccinated. They are still at risk, and we cannot emphasize enough – we must reach everyone, wherever they live, to stop diseases such as COVID-19 from mutating and circulating.”
“Vaccines are one of the greatest success stories of public health. And yet, with all the knowledge and tools we have, Somali children are still contracting vaccine-preventable diseases, and adults are still being infected with diseases such as COVID-19. It is our moral imperative to ensure every Somali has equitable access to vaccinations and a life free of disease and disabilities. We must all join forces to reach more people with life-saving vaccines,” said Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Somalia Representative and Head of Mission, while describing how the advent of smallpox vaccines showed the world it is possible to eradicate diseases if governments and all stakeholders join forces.
“It’s vital that parents and caregivers take control of their children’s health by making sure every child gets their routine vaccinations,” said UNICEF Representative a.i., Angela Kearney. “Vaccines ensure protection against preventable diseases and a healthier life. Vaccines are free and it’s the right thing to do.”
Somalia has an estimated 639 000 children aged under one year, but many are not able to access their regular childhood vaccinations. In 2021, 510 951 children received the third dose of penta vaccines to protect them from pertussis, diphtheria, hepatitis B, tetanus and Haemophilus influenzae type b, while around 80% of all measles cases confirmed in 2021 were children aged under five.
Some of the challenges Somalia faces in ensuring all communities have access to vaccinations include a fragile health system, further impeded by conflict and natural disasters including the ongoing drought, limited access to cold chain facilities in remote areas and among hard-to-reach populations, and difficulty in reaching people living in insecure and inaccessible locations.
Over the years, WHO, UNICEF, and partners and donors have extended support to Somalia in developing mechanisms to store various vaccines and establish community vaccination programmes that resulted in vaccinating communities.
Despite all the challenges, Somalia has indeed had some success in getting more children and adults, particularly  vulnerable ones, vaccinated against vaccine-preventable diseases such as measles, cholera, polio, diphtheria, tuberculosis, pertussis, tetanus, Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) and COVID-19 disease, using strategies such as mobile outreach sessions in addition to fixed vaccination sites. Additionally, teams of health care workers and social mobilizers, supported by the Government, WHO and UNICEF, are regularly visiting communities to share messages on the benefits of vaccination with them.
However, the country needs more support to protect children and adults, particularly vulnerable ones, from vaccine-preventable diseases.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/180773-immunization-efforts-need-shot-arm-say-somalia%E2%80%99s-government-and-un




Date: 12 April 2022
Title: Joint FAO-OCHA-UNICEF-WFP Statement on the Drought Emergency in Somalia
Content: 12 April 2022
Mogadishu, 12th April, 2022: Millions of Somalis are at risk of sliding into famine as the impact of a prolonged drought continues to destroy lives and livelihoods, and growing needs outpace available resources for humanitarian assistance, United Nations agencies warned today.
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) are calling for an immediate injection of funds to enable a scale up of life-saving assistance in Somalia. This follows the release of a new Integrated Food Security Phase Classification (IPC) report that found six million Somalis, or almost 40 per cent of the population, are now facing extreme levels of food insecurity, with pockets of famine conditions likely in six areas of the country.
This is nearly a two-fold increase in the number of people facing extreme levels of acute food insecurity due to the drought and related shocks since the beginning of the year. It reflects a rapid deterioration of the humanitarian situation, as millions of Somalis have exhausted their ability to cope with the crisis and funding shortfalls mean humanitarians will be unable to meet the needs of the growing number of people facing emergency.
“The projection for the risk of famine in six locations is extremely worrisome and should serve as a very serious warning if we really meant ‘never again’ after 2011. The reality is that time is not on our side and many more lives and livelihoods are bound to be lost in case of further funding delays,” said Adam Abdelmoula, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator. “I therefore continue to call on the authorities and our development partners to act decisively and help scale up resources to match the rapidly increasing needs, save more lives and rescue more livelihoods for the people of Somalia, “added Mr. Abdelmoula.
Collectively, humanitarian agencies have reached almost two million people with humanitarian assistance as of February 2022, but a critical gap in donor funding means they cannot sustain and scale up their support to meet the growing needs. If this gap is not urgently addressed, it will contribute to worse outcomes with a real risk of widespread famine. The last time such a humanitarian tragedy struck Somalia was in 2011, when famine conditions killed a quarter of a million people.
“The funding we need to respond to a crisis of this magnitude has simply not come. We are all watching this tragedy unfold and our hands are tied,” said Etienne Peterschmitt, the FAO Representative in Somalia. “I want to stress that it is not too late. Funding received today can still prevent the worst, but it has to come at scale and it has to come very soon,” he said.
Children under five are among the most vulnerable as the drought worsens, and access to food and milk is very scarce due to rising commodity prices and livestock losses. Around 1.4 million children face acute malnutrition through the end of this year, with around a quarter of them, or 330,000 children, facing severe acute malnutrition.
"The lives of children are at risk. If the funding gap is not met, malnutrition rates will continue to soar, and children may face severe malnutrition and preventable diseases. Losing children to starvation would be a loss for humanity,” said Angela Kearney, UNICEF Somalia Representative. “Addressing drought related indicators now will also greatly increase a child’s future opportunities.”
Gaps In The Funding Pipeline
The response to the drought is severely underfunded, leaving many Somalis without assistance. The 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan that seeks US$1.5 billion is only 4.4 percent funded, as Somalia competes with other global emergencies for funding.
As the hunger and nutrition crisis rapidly worsens, the gap between food insecurity and available resources is widening. The inability of UN Agencies, Funds and Programmes to meet rising needs means prioritizing humanitarian needs and making the difficult decision of who gets help and who doesn’t.
“We are literally about to start taking food from the hungry to feed the starving,” said WFP Somalia Representative and Country Director El-Khidir Daloum. “Being forced to prioritize our limited resources couldn’t come at a worse time as we’re on the cusp of a humanitarian catastrophe in Somalia. This is a year of unprecedented humanitarian needs and hunger but I implore the world not to turn its back on Somalia or wait until it’s too late. Millions of lives are at stake.”
A Perfect Storm For Famine
According to a recent analysis conducted by FAO’s Food Security Nutrition Analysis Unit (FSNAU) and its technical partners, three factors will contribute to famine taking hold in the country in the next three months– failure of the April to June 2022 rainy season, absence of adequate humanitarian assistance and a continued trend of rising food prices. With the below average rainfall outlook, inadequate funding, and globally disrupted supply chains and spikes in commodity prices due to the conflict in Ukraine, Somalia is facing a perfect storm that could very quickly lead to famine.
For famine to be declared in an area, at least 20 percent of the population need to be experiencing Catastrophe (IPC Phase 5) conditions. FSNAU and partners have identified potential famine hotspots across six different regions where 5 to 10 percent of the population or about 81,000 people are already facing famine conditions.  In this scenario, affected areas face extreme food shortages, high malnutrition and excess mortality as a result of starvation.
FAO, OCHA, UNICEF and WFP are gravely concerned about the worsening drought and the possibility of famine in the coming three months. With current funding shortfalls, bleak rainfall forecasts, and rising food prices globally, the agencies are calling for immediate funding to scale up humanitarian assistance across the hardest-hit parts of the country.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/177418-joint-fao-ocha-unicef-wfp-statement-drought-emergency-somalia




Date: 11 April 2022
Title: Readout of the Secretary-General's phone call with H.E. Mr. Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed 'Farmajo,' President of the Federal Republic of Somalia
Content: 11 April 2022
New York - The Secretary-General held a phone call on 11 April 2022 with H.E. Mr. Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed 'Farmajo', President of the Federal Republic of Somalia.
The Secretary-General expressed his solidarity with Somalia in the face of increased Al-Shabab attacks, and the drought the country is facing.
He also expressed his support for African Union Mission in Somalia (ATMIS), and his hope that Somalia would be able to ensure its own security as soon as possible.
The Secretary-General and the President also discussed the electoral process in Somalia. The Secretary-General hoped there would be a swift conclusion for the electoral process and that any outstanding issues be addressed through dialogue.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/177673-readout-secretary-generals-phone-call-he-mr-mohamed-abdullahi-mohamed-farmajo-president




Date: 04 April 2022
Title: On Mine Awarness Day, UN in Somalia highlights impact on lives and development
Content: 04 April 2022
On the occasion of the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, the United Nations in Somalia today highlighted the impact that the scourge has on Somalis, and reaffirmed its support for freeing Somalia from explosive hazards.
Mogadishu – On the occasion of the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, the United Nations in Somalia today highlighted the impact that the scourge has on Somalis, and reaffirmed its support for freeing Somalia from explosive hazards.
“The contamination by and from explosive remnants of war and landmines resulting from years of conflict in Somalia continues to have detrimental effects on safety and human security, and hampers development efforts,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“The continued use of improvised explosive devices poses a serious threat to the country and its population,” he added. “The United Nations in Somalia remains committed to working with the Somali authorities and partners on mine action, which enables peacebuilding, humanitarian, and socio-economic development efforts while protecting civilians.”
In 2020, 501 civilians were killed or injured in Somalia due to improvised explosive devices and explosive remnants of war. In 2021, the number of casualties increased to 669 casualties.
The United Nations in Somalia works closely with national and international mine action specialists, at both Federal and Federal Member State levels, in responding to explosive threats faced by communities, while enhancing the capacity of Somalis to lead and coordinate mine action responses.
The support includes the provision of explosive ordnance risk reduction, the delivery of survey and clearance activities, victim assistance, stockpile destruction, and advocacy for adherence to the international legal instruments.
The theme of this year’s International Day is ‘Safe Ground, Safe Steps, Safe Home.’ It aims to emphasize the efforts made over the past decade to free Somalia from explosive hazards, from playground to pathway, from farmland to house.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/176810-mine-awarness-day-un-somalia-highlights-impact-lives-and-development




Date: 02 April 2022
Title: UN in Somalia wishes Somalis a peaceful Ramadan
Content: 02 April 2022
Mogadishu - The United Nations in Somalia extends it warmest wishes to all Somalis as they begin the observance of the Holy Month of Ramadan.
“The UN family in Somalia wishes all Somalis a peaceful Ramadan, surrounded by family and friends, and reaffirms its commitment to supporting their efforts to build a future of unity and solidarity associated with this special time,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
Ramadan Mubarak, Ramadan Wanaagsan
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/176809-un-somalia-wishes-somalis-peaceful-ramadan




Date: 20 March 2022
Title: The Federal Government of Somalia and UN Partners launch Saameynta Project to Provide Lasting Solutions for People Displaced by Conflict and Climate Change
Content: 20 March 2022
Mogadishu – A new four-year multi-million project named ‘Saameynta’ - ‘impact’ in Somali - was launched today to achieve durable solutions for more than 75,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) and vulnerable host communities in Somalia.
Through this intervention, UN and its partners will work together with the Federal Government of Somalia to implement the National Durable Solutions Strategy. The project also seeks to decrease dependency on humanitarian aid, reduce poverty for thousands of impoverished individuals and promote IDPs integration in cities.
Saameynta´s unique approach aims to leverage the values generated by planned urbanization and investment in order to provide affordable housing, employment opportunities and community assets such as infrastructure, irrigation facilities, markets and other locally identified priorities for communities affected by displacement.
Saameynta will also increase the self-reliance and access to sustainable basic services, including water, shelter, and health services for IDPs residing in the cities of Baidoa, Bossaso and Beletweyne.
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is leading the implementation of the project and will work together with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and UN-HABITAT supported by the Integrated Office of the UN Resident Coordinator.
“IDPs suffer from a lack of opportunities to grow and develop in their new communities, which make it difficult for these groups to get out the poverty cycle,” said Ewa Naqvi, IOM Somalia Deputy Chief of Mission.
There are an estimated 2.9 million IDPs in Somalia due to decades of conflict and extreme weather events such as drought and floods - one of the highest figures of IDPs globally. Of these, 2.2 million require urgent humanitarian assistance.
As more areas across the country become inhabitable and traditional livelihoods increasingly unavailable, displaced communities in Somalia are heading to urban centres in search of basic goods and services. Most IDPs live in congested settlements and are often at risk of eviction by landowners.
“These IDPs are unlikely to return to their place of origin in the near future since their lands are now arid and unsuitable for farming or pastoralism,” said Adam Abdelmoula, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General and the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, during the launch of the project in Mogadishu.
Finding durable solutions to protracted displacement in Somalia is desperately needed to enhance the livelihood situation of IDPs and their host communities.
“Humanitarian assistance alone cannot address chronic issues such as mass displacement and recurrent droughts and floods. That is why durable solutions are a priority for the UN,” said Abdelmoula.
“The project will improve the living conditions of displaced persons, finally allowing them to to sustainably integrate in their host communities. The Ministry of Planning is proud to have spearheaded this project towards its implementation,” said Zahra Abdi, Director for Monitoring and Evaluation and Durable Solutions in the Federal Ministry of Planning, Investment and Economic Development of Somalia.
Failure to support these populations can also result in disenfranchisement, thereby increasing risks of radicalisation and criminality. For the next four years, the UN and its partners will enhance the capacities of local authorities to address urban displacement and support the development of new land policies to reduce the risk of forced eviction while improving the access to land for IDPs.
The project will also ensure the full participation of displaced women and girls living in overcrowded sites who continue to face a heightened risk of violence and harassment.
Saameynta comes at a crucial time as the displacement situation in the country has been further exacerbated by drought, closure of refugee camps in neighbouring countries and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The interventions will build on experiences and lessons learned from previous durable solutions projects in Somalia – such as the PBF funded Midnimo projects, DFID-funded Danwadaag programme, the European Union’s REINTEG programme, and DANIDA-funded Durable Solutions Programme.
Synergies amongst IOM, UNDP and UN-HABITAT for greater impact as demonstrated by Saameynta is also a possible model to be replicated in the region and a practical example of the Humanitarian, Development and Peace Nexus (HDPN).
The Saameynta Project is funded by the Netherlands and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation.
For more information: 
In IOM, Claudia Rosel, Communications Officer, cbarrios@iom.int 
In UNDP, Rob Few, Head of Communications, robert.few@undp.org 
In UN-Habitat, Mary Muriithi, Communications Consultant, mary.muriithi@un.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/175359-federal-government-somalia-and-un-partners-launch-saameynta-project-provide-lasting




Date: 18 March 2022
Title: International partners call for completion of Parliamentary process and impartial election of Speakers and President
Content: 18 March 2022
Mogadishu - International partners* note that more than eighty percent of the House of the People seats were completed as of the deadline of 15 March set by the National Consultative Council.

We strongly urge all Somali stakeholders to resolve any obstacles to completion of the process in the remaining voting sites through dialogue and on a consensus basis, so as to rapidly and credibly conclude the elections. We, therefore, call upon all political leaders to avoid approaches, including a parallel process, that are not based on an agreement among the key actors.

We reiterate that efforts must be redoubled to achieve the 30 per cent quota for women’s representation in parliament.

International partners urge Somali leaders to announce preparations for the Hangar and pledge their commitment to respect Somalia’s constitutional provisions regarding a fair and impartial process to elect the Speakers of the two Houses of parliament and the President of the Federal Republic of Somalia.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States and United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/175376-international-partners-call-completion-parliamentary-process-and-impartial-election-speakers




Date: 08 March 2022
Title: On International Women’s Day, the UN Envoy Calls for Concerted Efforts to Advance Somali Women’s Political Participation and Leadership
Content: 08 March 2022
Mogadishu – On the occasion of International Women’s Day, the United Nations in Somalia congratulates Somali women for their tireless efforts and immense contributions to promoting peace, political stability and development in the country.
“Somali women have shown bravery, resilience and unwavering resolve to ensure gender equality and full participation of women in all spheres of life, said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“I commend Somali women’s active role and advocacy in the ongoing federal electoral process to achieve the minimum 30 per cent quota for women. Women’s representation can change the political landscape in Somalia, making it more inclusive and pluralist,” he added.
The theme of this year’s International Women’s Day is ‘Gender Equality Today For a Sustainable Tomorrow.’ As Somalia prepares for a new government, there is an opportunity to advance gender equality and women’s political empowerment and leadership for sustainable peace and development.
“It is vital that Somali women are given their fair share in politics, as well as in economic and social development,” Mr Swan said. “It is important that their contributions are recognised together with their rightful place in leadership and decision-making in peace and political processes.”
The United Nations in Somalia acknowledges the tremendous efforts and contribution of Somali women over the years and urges all Somali stakeholders, particularly the country’s leaders, to ensure greater inclusion, voice and participation of women in all national and state-level bodies to realise and sustain peace and development in Somalia.
International Women’s Day has been observed around the world since 1975, to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The day marks a call to action for accelerating gender equality.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/174156-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-un-envoy-calls-concerted-efforts-advance-somali-women%E2%80%99s-political




Date: 18 February 2022
Title: International partners note midpoint of House of the People elections and urge timely and credible conclusion of the process
Content: 18 February 2022
Mogadishu - International partners* note the election of approximately half of the seats in the House of the People.
International partners again underscore the need for procedural irregularities to be addressed in an impartial and transparent manner in order to build confidence in the electoral process and its outcomes. As outlined in the National Consultative Council (NCC) Communique of January, candidates must be free to compete without obstruction. Journalists should be able to report on, and civil society free to observe electoral activities without intimidation. In addition, we call on all leaders to avoid an escalation of political tensions and to ensure that security forces are not used as political instruments.
International partners repeat the concern that the 30 per cent quota for women’s representation in parliament is not being met and call for urgent corrective measures to be applied for the remaining seats.
Given the 25 February deadline agreed by the January 2022 NCC, partners encourage continued momentum to ensure a credible and urgent conclusion of the electoral process.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States and United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/172528-international-partners-note-midpoint-house-people-elections-and-urge-timely-and-credible




Date: 15 February 2022
Title: Urgent support needed for 1.4 million children likely to suffer from acute malnutrition in Somalia
Content: 15 February 2022
Mogadishu, 15 February 2022: More than 1.4 million children in Somalia, nearly half of the country’s under-five population, are likely to suffer from acute malnutrition due to the ongoing drought that has left 4.1 million people on the brink.
According to the latest Somalia Food Security and Nutrition Assessment released last week, about a quarter of the 1.4 million children, equivalent to 329,500 children, will suffer from severe malnutrition this year.
“We know that humanitarian emergencies of this magnitude disproportionately affect children,” said UNICEF Representative Angela Kearney. “The numbers we are seeing this year are quite high and unless urgent measures are taken, thousands of children are at risk of dying.”
Three consecutive seasons of failed rains combined with ongoing conflicts in many parts of Somalia have left a quarter of the population needing immediate food assistance. Without urgent scaling up of assistance, the humanitarian situation among the urban and rural poor and displaced populations is expected to deteriorate further between now and June 2022.
The impact on pastoralist communities is especially dire. A critical shortage of water has forced families to migrate to urban and peri-urban centers in search of water for both human and livestock consumption, adding to the 2.9 million people who were already displaced by conflict and climate change. Since November last year, water prices in some of the worst affected areas have risen by as much as 72 per cent.
Although large-scale humanitarian support by the government and other partners since July 2021 has largely mitigated the magnitude of the crisis, projected moderate rainfall during the next rainy season (April-June 2022) is likely to compound the food and nutrition situation.
UNICEF is urgently appealing for US$7 million before the end of March 2022 to procure 104,000 cartons of Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Foods (RUTF) for the treatment of children with severe acute malnutrition. A potential break in the supplies pipeline could result in a serious shortage of RUTF from June 2022 onwards and imperil the lives of more than 100,000 children.
Photos and Video assets available for download
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/175098-urgent-support-needed-14-million-children-likely-suffer-acute-malnutrition-somalia




Date: 28 December 2021
Title: International Partners Urge Restraint and Dialogue and Renewed Focus on Elections
Content: 28 December 2021
JOINT PRESS STATEMENT
Mogadishu, 27 December 2021 – International partners* are following with deep concern the current situation and political developments. We call on Somalia’s leaders to put the country’s interests first, to de-escalate rising political tensions, and to refrain from provocation or use of force that could undermine peace and stability.
International partners have repeatedly expressed growing concern over procedural irregularities and delays in the Somali electoral process. It is imperative that the 17 September 2020 and 27 May 2021 agreements, which are the basis for the elections, be implemented immediately without further distraction or disruption.
A meeting of the National Consultative Council as soon as possible, along with other consultations among key stakeholders, is urgently needed to accelerate and improve the process and bring the elections to a rapid and credible conclusion that will enjoy the confidence of the Somali people.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Sudan, Sweden, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States and United Nations.

* * * * *
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/166919-international-partners-urge-restraint-and-dialogue-and-renewed-focus-elections




Date: 26 December 2021
Title: On United Nations Passenger Operations at Aden Adde International Airport
Content: 26 December 2021
The United Nations takes seriously any concerns that the Federal Government may raise about UN operations at any time and regret that this instruction to close was issued abruptly and with minimal prior consultation.

Mogadishu, 26 December 2021 – At the request of the Somali Government, the United Nations in Somalia has closed its passenger operations facility (known as MOVCON) at the Aden Adde International Airport, effective 24 December 2021.
The United Nations operates in Somalia in full respect of Somali law under the terms of a Status of Mission Agreement and other relevant bilateral agreements signed by UN agencies, funds, and programmes, as well as the UN Charter and the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations.
We take seriously any concerns that the Federal Government may raise about UN operations at any time and regret that this instruction to close was issued abruptly and with minimal prior consultation.
We further regret that the closure was apparently prompted by allegations that have yet to be presented to the United Nations in detail to permit an inquiry. Further discussions on this matter are scheduled with Federal Government officials in the coming days.
The United Nations remains committed to its partnership with Somalia and to continuing to assist its people despite these operational disruptions.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/166607-united-nations-passenger-operations-aden-adde-international-airport




Date: 24 December 2021
Title: Statement by the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, on the situation in Bossaso, Puntland State
Content: 24 December 2021
I am concerned that fighting has negatively affected the ability of humanitarian partners to reach the displaced people who are in urgent need of humanitarian and protection assistance.
Mogadishu, 23 December 2021 - I am extremely concerned about the impact of ongoing hostilities in Bossaso, Puntland State, on civilians.
With the fighting in Bossaso town continuing into a third consecutive day, more than half of the city’s population has reportedly been displaced from their homes. According to humanitarian partners and local authorities, some 40 per cent of 70,000 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) hosted in Bossaso town are also reported to have experienced secondary displacement.
The closure of shops has limited the possibility of vulnerable people, including IDPs and drought-affected communities, to redeem their vouchers for basic supplies.
I am further concerned that fighting has negatively affected the ability of humanitarian partners to reach the displaced people who are in urgent need of humanitarian and protection assistance.
I urge all parties to the conflict to uphold their obligations under international humanitarian law and to ensure unfettered access for humanitarian workers to all people in need of assistance.

For further information, please contact:
Ogoso, Erich Opolot, Head of Communications, OCHA Somalia. Tel: +252 616854007/+254 720766587, Email: ogoso@un.org
Mursal Ali, Public Information Officer, OCHA Somalia. Tel: +252615679998, Email: mursalali@un.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/166598-statement-deputy-special-representative-secretary-general-un-resident-and-humanitarian




Date: 23 December 2021
Title: International Partners Welcome Planned National Consultative Council Meeting
Content: 23 December 2021
JOINT PRESS STATEMENT
Mogadishu, 22 December 2021 – Somalia’s international partners* welcome plans to hold an in-person National Consultative Council meeting focused on improving and expediting the electoral process. We reiterate our call for full transparency in all related processes.
We remain fully supportive of any process that is based on and respects the 17 September 2020 and 27 May 2021 agreements. We urge Somalia’s leaders to conclude the electoral process as soon as possible and urge the implementation of necessary enhancements to correct observed shortcomings in order to ensure the outcome will obtain the support and confidence of the Somali people.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, League of Arab States (LAS), Norway, Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States and United Nations.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/166385-international-partners-welcome-planned-national-consultative-council-meeting




Date: 20 December 2021
Title: Humanitarian Partners Release 2022 Response Plan for Somalia as UN Announces US$17 million for Immediate Drought Response
Content: 20 December 2021
The United Nations and humanitarian partners in Somalia have released the 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) for Somalia, which is facing three consecutive failed rainy seasons for the first time in 30 years.
Mogadishu/New York, 20 December 2021 – The United Nations and humanitarian partners in Somalia have released the 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) for Somalia, which is facing three consecutive failed rainy seasons for the first time in 30 years.
 
The 2022 HRP seeks close to US$1.5 billion to assist 5.5 million of the most vulnerable people in Somalia. To meet the immediate needs of drought-affected communities, the UN is releasing US$17 million from the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), bringing CERF funding for Somalia in 2021 to $52 million. This is in addition to just under $60 million provided by donors to the Somalia Humanitarian Fund.
“The lives of the people in Somalia are on the line, and we have no time to lose,” said the UN Humanitarian Chief Martin Griffiths. “To save lives in Somalia and avert another humanitarian catastrophe, we must release funding now so that people can protect themselves from further hunger and impoverishment. I am releasing $17 million from the Central Emergency Response Fund today to enable humanitarians to scale up critical operations. I count on other donors to follow this lead and urge them to generously support the Somalia Humanitarian Fund.”
People in Somalia have endured decades of conflict, recurrent climate shocks, and disease outbreaks, including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. A prolonged desert locust infestation has impacted also harvests and livelihoods. At least seven in 10 people in Somalia live below the poverty line.
 
An estimated 7.7 million Somalis will require humanitarian assistance and protection in 2022, marking a 30 per cent rise in needs in just one year.
 
The HRP will prioritize life-saving assistance for 5 million of the most vulnerable people, including 1 million children under 5, by decreasing the prevalence of hunger, acute malnutrition, public health threats and outbreaks, abuse, violence, and exposure to explosive ordinances by the end of the year. In addition, partners will attempt to sustain the lives of 5.5 million people requiring humanitarian assistance, including 3.9 million non-IDPs, 1.6 million IDPs and people with disability across 74 districts, by ensuring safe, equitable and dignified access to livelihoods and essential services. Finally, the humanitarian response in Somalia aims to uphold commitments to the centrality of protection.
 
Conflict and insecurity have forced 777,000 people to flee their homes so far this year. Overall, more than 2.9 million people are internally displaced in Somalia – one of the world’s highest figures. Most of these internally displaced people live a precarious existence and need help to survive. Women and girls make up half of the displaced population and face a heightened risk of sexual violence and harassment, abuse and intimate partner violence.
“The current drought has devastated livelihoods and pushed families to the brink of disaster,” said Federal Minister of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, Khadija Diriye. “There is a high risk that without immediate humanitarian assistance, children, women and men will start dying of starvation in Somalia.”
Somalia - on the front line of climate change - is the most severely drought-affected country in the Horn of Africa.  An estimated 3.2 million people in 66 out of the country’s 74 districts are experiencing the cumulative impacts of three consecutive below average rainy seasons, including 169,000 who have abandoned their homes to seek water, food and pasture.
 
Recent projections indicate that up to 1.4 million Somalis could be displaced by drought in the coming six months. Widespread livestock deaths are already being reported, and food, water and fuel prices are rapidly increasing. Crop production in January is projected to be 50-70 per cent below the last ten-year average.
 
Humanitarian organizations, local communities and government authorities have ramped up responses to address acute water, food and fodder shortages and other lifesaving needs for people across Somalia. But they urgently need to ramp up these efforts and in order to scale up, they need additional resources and unfettered access to people in need.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/166073-humanitarian-partners-release-2022-response-plan-somalia-un-announces-us17-million-immediate




Date: 10 December 2021
Title: On Human Rights Day, UN Calls Upon Somalis to Embrace Equality and Non-Discrimnation in All Aspects of Life
Content: 10 December 2021
In marking this year’s Human Rights Day, the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia calls on Somalis to unite in upholding the principles of equality and non-discrimination.
Mogadishu – In marking this year’s Human Rights Day, the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia calls on Somalis to unite in upholding the principles of equality and non-discrimination are embedded in all aspects of life.
Highlighting ‘equality’, which is this year’s theme, Special Representative James Swan, said: “Equality is at the core of article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Equality is also enshrined in the Provisional Constitution of Somalia and the many international treaties Somalia is a party.”
“Ensuring that the principles of equality and non-discrimination are at the forefront, will help eliminate exclusion faced by minorities and marginalized communities in Somalia, such as persons with disabilities and internally displaced persons, and allow people to fully participate in decision-making that affects their lives and their future,” said the UN Special Representative.
Observed on 10 December, Human Rights Day commemorates the day in 1948 on which the UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The United Nations in Somalia remains committed to supporting the promotion and protection of human rights for the benefit of the Somali people.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/164768-human-rights-day-un-calls-upon-somalis-embrace-equality-and-non-discrimnation-all-aspects




Date: 09 December 2021
Title: On International Anti-Corruption Day, UN Representative Highlights Importance of Robust and Accountable Institutions
Content: 09 December 2021
On the occasion of International Anti-Corruption Day, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Somalia, James Swan, underlined the importance of building accountable and transparent institutions and welcomed the country’s progress in this area.
Mogadishu – On the occasion of International Anti-Corruption Day, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Somalia, James Swan, underlined the importance of building accountable and transparent institutions and welcomed the country’s progress in this area.
“Corruption is a major obstacle to development. It undermines efforts toward state-building, peace and reconciliation. It also undermines public trust and weakens state institutions and their ability to serve the Somali people,” said Mr. Swan.
“In this respect, the United Nations is encouraged by Somalia’s recent accession to the UN Convention against Corruption,” he added. “This is a significant step forward.”
The UN Convention against Corruption (UNCAC), to which Somalia became a State Party on 11 August 2021, is a key international instrument to sustain, manage and track countries’ fight against corruption. It is the world’s only legally binding anti-corruption instrument.
The United Nations in Somalia welcomes the Federal Government’s commitment to implement reforms to strengthen governance and reduce vulnerabilities to corruption. This commitment is evidenced by the appointment of commissioners to the Independent Anti-Corruption Commission in May 2021.
“We urge all branches of the Government to take further measures to uphold integrity and accountability in the management of public finance and resources by strengthening the legal and institutional frameworks against corruption with robust enforcement and punitive measures,” Mr. Swan said.
Globally, International Anti-Corruption Day is observed on 9 December with the aim of raising awareness about corruption issues and the role of the UNCAC in preventing and combating them
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/164767-international-anti-corruption-day-un-representative-highlights-importance-robust-and




Date: 03 December 2021
Title: On International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the UN calls for increased recognition of persons with disabilities
Content: 03 December 2021
Mogadishu – On the occasion of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the United Nations Secretary-General's Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan, calls for increased recognition of the rights of persons with disabilities under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
“Persons with disabilities of all age groups have been identified as a particularly marginalized and at-risk group within the Somali society. The number of people with disabilities in Somalia is likely to be higher than the global estimate of 15 per cent of the population due to the long period of conflict, humanitarian emergencies and limited access to health care,” said Special Representative Swan.
The theme for this year's commemoration is “leadership and participation of persons with disabilities toward an inclusive, accessible and sustainable post-COVID-19 world.” The theme is relevant in Somalia as it underlines the need for full participation of persons with disabilities in the ongoing electoral process and in efforts to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has added additional challenges to the existing vulnerabilities of persons with disabilities. This necessitates increased and concerted efforts by Somalia to address both the immediate and long-term needs of persons with disabilities, including ensuring their participation in all spheres of society and in leadership,” added Special Representative Swan.
Somalia enacted the National Disability Agency Bill in December 2018, ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in August 2019, and launched the National Disability Agency in July 2021.
“I encourage the Federal Government of Somalia to increase support for the National Disability Agency, a key body to promote disability rights,” said the UN Special Representative to Somalia and added, “the UN in Somalia remains committed to supporting Somalia in the promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and looks forward to the finalization of the National Disability Rights Bill, to be put into law in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/161758-international-day-persons-disabilities-un-calls-increased-recognition-persons-disabilities




Date: 30 November 2021
Title: UN in Somalia and Government Representatives Launch a New Joint Programme on Empowering Women
Content: 30 November 2021
Mogadishu - UN Officials, Federal and State Government officials, members of the civil society and donor partners gathered today to mark the launch of a new Women, Peace and Protection Joint Programme.
Funded by the Peacebuilding Fund (PBF) (US$ 5 million) and the Somalia Multi Partner Trust Fund (MPTF) ($1.2 million of funding from Germany), the Programme is the result of inclusive consultations, collective planning and prioritization in the area of women, peace and security (WPS). It will be implemented by UNDP and UN Women, in partnership with the Ministry of Women and Human Rights Development (MoWHRD) and UNSOM. The event took place in the Aden Adde International Airport where the participating agencies signed a commitment banner to support Somali women in peacebuilding and leadership roles.
The programme’s aim is to promote women’s meaningful participation in peacebuilding processes in Somalia, particularly in decision-making and leadership roles, and to sustain peace at national and community levels. More concretely, the programme will engage, empower and capacitate women through legislative provisions and policy interventions, while strengthening and establishing infrastructures for peacebuilding. The programme will empower women as leaders and changemakers and promote the role of women-led organizations in peacebuilding, particularly at the grassroot level.
In her remarks on the occasion of the launch, H.E. Hanifa Ibrahim, Federal Minister of Women and Human Rights Development, said: “The support of the United Nations through the Peacebuilding Fund is timely as we begin to consolidate our efforts to accelerate the implementation of the Somali Women Charter and the National Action Plan on UN Security Council Resolution 1325 for equal and increased participation of Somali women in peacebuilding and leadership role.”
The Women, Peace and Protection Programme also intends to accelerate and strengthen the implementation of the WPS agenda, notably by addressing negative social norms and working closely with key counterparts, including the MoWHRD, the Ministry of Interior, Federal Affairs & Reconciliation (MoIFAR), clan elders, religious leaders, women leaders and civil society groups at both national and grassroot levels.
“If sustained peace and stability were to be achieved, we need to address the rise in incidents of violence and misogyny; the exclusion of Somali women from decision-making; and a myriad of challenges they are facing,” said Adam Abdelmoula, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia opening the event.
The Women, Peace and Protection Programme is the first programme approved under the new PBF eligibility period 2020-2025. It will firmly anchor the new PBF portfolio in the WPS agenda and serve as a reference point for new programmatic initiatives by the PBF.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/161105-un-somalia-and-government-representatives-launch-new-joint-programme-empowering-women




Date: 26 November 2021
Title: International Partners Call for Credible House of the People Elections
Content: 26 November 2021
Mogadishu - International partners* urge the completion of inclusive and credible House of the People elections acceptable by all electoral stakeholders and the Somali people according to a published timetable, by 24 December 2021 and for presidential elections to be completed imminently thereafter.
We call for full transparency in all related processes, including selection committee appointments, delegates selection, candidate registration, the reservation of seats for women candidates, to comply with the agreed 30 per cent quota, and the management of candidate fees. We further call on the electoral committees to facilitate observation of all polling station activities.
We call for respect for the right of candidates to stand for election under conditions of genuine and fair competition.
We encourage delegates and candidates wishing to submit electoral complaints to do so through the legal mechanisms established for this purpose.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/161318-international-partners-call-credible-house-people-elections




Date: 15 November 2021
Title: International Partners Welcome Conclusion of Somalia’s Upper House Elections
Content: 15 November 2021
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* welcome the conclusion of the Upper House elections following the 11 November National Consultative Council meeting and leaders’ commitment to conclude the House of the People elections by the end of December 2021.
International partners, however, remain deeply concerned about the extremely delayed election timeline and strongly urge the Somali leadership, at all levels of government, to swiftly re-commence and complete the electoral process for the House of the People seats. We note that sufficient funds are already available, including from international partners, to complete a significant portion of the House of the People elections.
We continue to call for timely, inclusive and credible elections that maintain the integrity of the electoral process. We also strongly urge Somali leaders and the State Election Implementation Teams, in line with the 17 September 2020 and 27 May 2021 agreements, to ensure that a minimum 30 per cent quota is reserved for women members of Parliament through a clear mechanism.
International partners reiterate their deep concern that, the longer the elections are delayed, the more attention and resources will be diverted from important national priorities, such as responding to the humanitarian consequences of drought, state-building and ensuring security, which are critical to the overall stability of Somalia and the welfare of its people.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/159258-international-partners-welcome-conclusion-somalia%E2%80%99s-upper-house-elections




Date: 11 November 2021
Title: World Patient Safety Day: Somalia, UN urge all stakeholders to redouble efforts to keep mothers and newborns safe in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 11 November 2021
Mogadishu, 17 September 2021 – While commemorating World Patient Safety Day yesterday, the Federal Government of Somalia, in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), urged health facilities, health care workers and other stakeholders to step up efforts to ensure mothers and newborns remain safe.
This message echoes this year’s theme for World Patient Safety Day — ‘Safe maternal and newborn care’ — and comes at a time when the coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) has disrupted continuity of already overstretched essential health services across the country.
A national ‘pulse survey’, conducted by WHO over seven months in 2020 and 2021 to determine the continuity of essential services in Somalia, found that during May–September 2020, 33% of essential health services had been disrupted (one out of three services), while during January–March 2021, there was continued disruption of 12% of essential health services (six out of 51 services), indicating that substantial disruptions persisted even after one year of the pandemic. Six of the major essential health services (where significant disruptions were noted) include reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health services, that experienced between 5-50% disruption, and immunization services, disrupted by between 5-20%.
Even before the COVID-19 outbreak was confirmed in Somalia, the country was known to have one of the highest maternal mortality rates in the world, at 692 maternal deaths per 100 000, and a neonatal mortality rate of 40 deaths per 1000 live births.
“Before the COVID-19 pandemic, 68% of women did not visit health facilities for antenatal care and only one-third of births were delivered with the help of a qualified health care practitioner,” said Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, Minister of Health and Human Services for Somalia. “Since the COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed in Somalia, women have been making even fewer visits to seek help. I would like to encourage all our partners to reconsider their strategies to ensure more pregnant women access health facilities for antenatal care, deliveries, and immunization, to offer young children a safe start to their lives.”
As part of this year’s World Patient Safety Day commemorations, all partners, including WHO, are urging all stakeholders to “Act now for safe and respectful childbirth.” Ensuring appropriate and respectful treatment to delivering women and their babies will increase trust in health facilities, utilization of services and support by the communities.
“At the points of care, we need to continue to develop the capacity of health care workers, while maintaining the highest standards of hygiene and safety to prevent any potential spread of diseases and to ensure patients recover,” said Dr Mamunur Malik, WHO Representative to Somalia. “At the same time, we need to encourage family members, including men, to bring pregnant mothers to their nearest health centers for regular antenatal care and delivery, to prevent women and children from dying of preventable causes and unsafe care. With concerted efforts, we can save more lives, but we all need to act now to make a change.”
“Having a skilled pair of hands – a well-trained doctor, nurse or midwife – present during pregnancy, birth and beyond, is key in giving every Somali child a chance to survive and thrive from the very beginning,” said UNICEF Somalia Representative, Mohamed Ayoya. “UNICEF is proud to partner with the Government of Somalia to enhance its efforts to reach vulnerable women and children, who need the support most and live in the most disadvantaged areas and endure the harshest conditions, amid the COVID-19 pandemic.”
“Every mother has a right to a safe delivery through skilled birth attendance at birth. This is a service that can be scaled up to reach the underserved and underprivileged population across the country. This can be achieved through the ongoing engagement of the public sector and the services provided by the non-government sector,” said UNFPA Representative, Mr Anders Thomsen.
Mr Thomsen said skilled birth attendance is an evidence-based public health intervention to reduce maternal and neonatal mortality and morbidity. “UNFPA continues to invest in this effort in close partnership with the Ministry of Health, by supporting health facilities providing life-saving skilled birth attendance at birth as well as ensuring the production of qualified midwives who provide the best option in Somalia for truly reaching the most underserved population in the country with safe and life-saving care,” said Mr. Thomsen.
Introduced in 2019, World Patient Safety Day aims to promote understanding of patient safety, increase public engagement in health care safety, and promote global action to prevent and reduce avoidable harm in health care. This year, on the World Patient Safety Day, WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA committed to support the Federal Ministry of Health and Human Services to introduce new interventions and measures across the health facilities in the country, which will ensure safer maternal and newborn care every year.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/157947-world-patient-safety-day-somalia-un-urge-all-stakeholders-redouble-efforts-keep-mothers-and




Date: 02 November 2021
Title: Statement by the Group of Friends of Children Affected by Armed Conflict (CAAC) of Somalia
Content: 02 November 2021
The Group of Friends of Children Affected by Armed Conflict (CAAC) of Somalia express deep concern that data from the Secretary General’s annual reports on CAAC shows that Somalia is now the most dangerous conflict on the planet for children. The Group of Friends of CAAC insists that child rights must be brought to the forefront of international efforts to achieve lasting peace in Somalia. Relative to other countries included in the Secretary General’s annual report, Somalia’s total number of verified violations (23,374) exceed all other countries over the past 5-year period (2016-20). Aggregated data of all parties to the conflict shows that Somalia has the highest number of abducted children (6,553), highest number of child survivors of rape and other forms of sexual violence (1,606) and second highest number of child recruitment and use cases (9,533). Somalia has the 5th highest number of children who have been killed or maimed in conflict (4,883). Al Shabaab has committed the majority of these atrocities.
Al Shabaab - largest recruiter of children worldwide - Trends in child recruitment and use and child abduction are particularly concerning to the Group of Friends. Data shows that Al Shabaab has recruited 6,843 children since 2016 and annual trends indicate a 300% increase in child recruitment and use over the past 5 years. This is strong evidence that the recruitment of children is now Al Shabaab policy.
Testimony collected from community leaders, parents and children describe how conscription is difficult to avoid for children living in Al Shabaab controlled areas. Due to insecurity, which limits access for humanitarian actors, there are few educational services or alternative livelihoods available for adolescent children. The only option for parents wishing to avoid recruitment of their children is to move them out of Al Shabaab controlled areas. These displaced children are now separated from their families, living in towns and cities across Somalia deprived of parental care, living in insecurity and poverty while parents at home live in fear of Al Shabaab retaliation.
Faced with a sustained surge in grave child rights violations, we, the CAAC Group of Friends of Somalia, call upon:
We, the undersigned, endorse and support this statement as the CAAC Group of Friends of Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/157908-statement-group-friends-children-affected-armed-conflict-caac-somalia




Date: 28 October 2021
Title: Somalia launches third phase of programme to strengthen resilience among marginalized communities in Jubaland State
Content: 28 October 2021
MOGADISHU, 28 October 2021: The Federal Government of Somalia has today launched the third phase of a programme to build resilience among almost 25,000 disadvantaged and marginalized households in Jubaland State. Funded by the Government of Germany through the German Development Bank (KfW), this three-year, 50 million Euro programme phase aims to improve access to education, health, hygiene and nutrition for children and adolescents and enhance food security among disadvantaged households.
In the first year of implementation, this third phase will reach about 146,000 people; 147,000 in the second year; and 148,000 in the third year. People targeted for inclusion include very young and school-aged children; vulnerable adolescents; internally displaced and food-insecure communities; and malnourished children and pregnant and breastfeeding women.
This phase of the programme will be managed by the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). It will be implemented by the federal ministries of Planning, Investment and Economic Development; Education, Culture and Higher Education; Health, Agriculture and Irrigation; Livestock, Forestry and Range; and Water and Energy, the Jubaland State Government, district and local authorities, and non-governmental organizations.
The programme is intended to increase access to inclusive, child-friendly education, school water and sanitation (WASH), health and nutrition for children at pre-primary and primary levels; to reduce micronutrient deficiencies among young children and pregnant and breastfeeding women; to enable households to improve food security and livelihoods through diversified agricultural production and income generation; and to strengthen government systems to promote quality health, nutrition, education and WASH services in schools and health facilities.
“The Federal Ministry of Planning, Investment and Economic Development is pleased to lead and participate in this launching event of the third phase of joint resilience program which will be implemented in Jubaland state,” said Abdinasir Katib Omar, Acting Director-General in the Ministry. “On behalf of the Federal Government, the Ministry is grateful to the German Government for funding this project that seeks to strengthen resilience as well as building on the lessons learnt from the previous Phases I and II. Similarly, the Ministry would like to thank the UN agencies for close collaboration in regard to the implementation of this project. The Ministry looks forward to the strengthened partnership and cooperation among the stakeholders in order to achieve project objectives and desired outcome.”
“We are delighted to see the launch of Phase III which builds on the success of the previous two phases of the programme,” said Head of Cooperation at the Germany mission to Somalia. “Joining forces with the three UN organisations using an integrated life-cycle approach will further increase the resilience of the targeted communities and allow them access to basic services including nutrition, health, education and WASH. The addition of a livelihoods element in Phase III highlights the transformative character of the programme which will allow communities to react even stronger to shocks.”
This third phase will build on the results achieved in both Jubaland State and Banadir Region under the first and second phases of the programme, also supported by Germany via KfW, since their inception in 2018 and 2019 respectively.  These results include contributing to a decrease in global acute malnutrition in Banadir from 20.4 percent to 16 percent, averting an estimated 15,820 child deaths through the acute malnutrition treatment programme, and higher coverage of outpatient therapeutic feeding and targeted supplementary feeding in Gedo and Banadir compared to other regions. Some 230,000 children under 2 and 160,000 pregnant and breastfeeding women have received specialized nutritious food to prevent malnutrition. Additionally, WASH services have been improved in 50 schools and 34 health facilities to the benefit of 21,000 school pupils and 85,000 health facility users.
Under Phase III of the programme, nutrition and education interventions will be jointly supported by UNICEF and WFP, WASH interventions by UNICEF, and livelihoods by FAO. Some 9,000 households with malnourished children, and 7,000 households with vulnerable school children, will be enrolled in livelihood activities to improve food security through agriculture production and income generation.
“This joint action for building resilience in Somalia represents an important collaborative milestone between the three agencies. Together, with the support of KFW and in close collaboration with the Government (coordinated by MoPIED), the Agencies will help chronically food-insecure people to better withstand shocks. The inclusion of FAO in Phase III means the introduction of irrigation, rainfed agriculture and other livelihood opportunities that complement the work of WFP and UNICEF in providing a comprehensive package of interventions that will enable vulnerable households to produce, access and afford nutritious food” said Etienne Peterschmitt, FAO Country Representative for Somalia.
“The third phase of this programme is a key opportunity to sustain and build on the gains already made for the people most at risk from malnutrition and food insecurity in Jubaland,” said WFP Representative and Country Director El-Khidir Daloum. “In our mission for Zero Hunger, we are committed to working with the Government, our sister United Nations agencies and other partners to deliver better food security and nutrition outcomes for the people we serve – and to support them in strengthening their own self-sufficient resilience against shocks for the long term.”
“Children in Jubaland continue to live in some of the most difficult conditions in Somalia,” said UNICEF Representative Mohamed Ayoya. “They suffer displacements because of climate shocks and conflicts, they are more likely to be malnourished and out-of-school, and they lack access to water and sanitation, the essentials of life. Through this programme, we will strive to ensure that quality support is provided to targeted individuals and that no deserving child is left behind.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/157910-somalia-launches-third-phase-programme-strengthen-resilience-among-marginalized-communities




Date: 26 October 2021
Title: In fight against COVID-19, Germany donates 163,000 COVID-19 vaccine doses to Somalia through COVAX facility
Content: 26 October 2021
MOGADISHU, 26 October 2021 -- Somalia scaled up its battle to end the COVID-19 pandemic after receiving 163 000 doses of Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccines from the Government of Germany through the COVAX Facility today.
“The Government of Germany has extended its valuable support to Somalia in the fight against COVID-19 and we would like to thank them for this,” said Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, the Minister of Health and Human Services of Somalia.
“So far, 1.85 percent of our population has been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. With the support from Germany, we can ramp up our efforts to ensure more eligible Somalis have access to the life-saving vaccines. It is only when we join forces that we become strong enough to stamp out diseases, like COVID-19, from Somalia and the rest of the countries all over the world.”
“We stand firmly with Somalia to protect its people against COVID-19,” said Sascha Kienzle, Deputy Ambassador to Somalia. “As the second-largest donor to the global response to COVID-19, and one of the co-founders of the ACT-A, a distribution platform for COVID-19 vaccines, we understand the importance of ensuring safe and equitable access to these vaccines for every country to end this pandemic and to ensure vaccine equity. I hope our support will enable Somalia to immunize more of its citizens, giving them an opportunity to lead healthy lives and contribute to the country’s economy and development goals.”
In August 2021, the Government of Germany donated around 1.3 million face masks to WHO for Somalis to use and stay safe from COVID-19 and other infectious respiratory diseases.
“Donors, such as the Government of Germany, are playing an important role in the response plan for COVID-19. Together with the Federal Government of Somalia and UNICEF, WHO is supporting the vaccination drive to improve the uptake and use all means to reach every eligible Somali to receive a vaccine against COVID-19,” said Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Representative to Somalia.
“Immunization is an effective intervention to halt the spread of COVID-19 and the dose donations, through the COVAX facility, play an important role in enhancing equitable and safe access to the vaccines in Somalia. UNICEF is grateful to the Government of Germany and remains steadfast in its commitment to support the Ministry of Health in managing the cold chain systems to deliver the vaccines safely and in deploying community mobilizers to encourage the uptake of the vaccine,” said UNICEF Somalia Representative, Mohamed Ayoya.
Besides frontline workers, people aged over 50 and those with pre-existing medical conditions continue to be prioritized with vaccinations. Somalia is also offering vaccines to all people aged 18 years and above.
When vaccines are prioritized for essential workers and people who are at highest risk of COVID-19 complications, health and other essential services will continue to function and deaths can be prevented. Unless health workers and other essential workers are protected, health systems and other essential services will remain overwhelmed, and the most vulnerable populations, including children, will continue to lose access to life-saving services, risking years of progress being reversed.
As of 25 October 2021, 652 886 doses have been administered in the country. So far, 289 925 (1.85%) people have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and 362 961 (2.32%) have been partially vaccinated.
Since the COVID-19 outbreak began in March 2020, Somalia has reported 21 998 laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 1208 deaths, as of 25 October 2021.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/157911-fight-against-covid-19-germany-donates-163000-covid-19-vaccine-doses-somalia-through-covax




Date: 24 October 2021
Title: World Polio Day 2021: Delivering on the promise to protect every Somali child from polio
Content: 24 October 2021
MOGADISHU, 24 October 2021 - On World Polio Day 2021, the Federal Government of Somalia, World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and other key partners from the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI) renewed their efforts to deliver on the promise to protect every Somali child from polio.
Over the years, Somalia has made substantial progress in polio eradication. The country stopped the transmission of wild poliovirus in 2013 and prevented its subsequent importations. However, outbreaks of other strains of poliovirus still pose a threat to unvaccinated children.
In March 2021, after 28 months, Somalia’s polio programme and partners successfully stopped an outbreak of a rare strain of circulating poliovirus type 3 (cVDPV3). Currently, an outbreak of circulating poliovirus type 2 (cVDPV2), detected for the first time in Somalia in the environment in November 2017 and in a child on 11 May 2018, continues to threaten under-vaccinated children. So far, 23 children have been infected, with the last reported case detected in October 2021.
Somalia’s polio programme is foundational to the health care system of the country and is a critical asset for disease surveillance and primary health care. With an extensive network of over 149 national and sub-national polio health workers, present in every district across the country, the programme has provided immediate, urgent support to other outbreaks and public health emergencies.
With a vision to strengthen Somalia’s health systems while optimizing existing resources, the country is rolling out a polio transition plan capitalizing on the existing network of health workers to support other priority health care functions and streamline health service delivery. These efforts will ensure the country makes progress towards universal health coverage.
Tapping into new, rigorously tested innovations to respond to and prevent polio outbreaks swiftly and robustly, Somalia is at the forefront of countries to qualify for the use of a next-generation polio vaccine – known as novel oral polio vaccine (nOPV2). This vaccine protects children, particularly under-immunized ones, from the emergence of polio strains, as is genetically more stable than the monovalent oral polio vaccine (mOPV2), which is why it is being used as the “vaccine of choice” to address cVDPV2 outbreaks. Somalia is ready to use nOPV2 vaccines as soon as they are made available, which would be a significant development for polio eradication efforts.

WHO Somalia/2021
In September 2021, the polio eradication programme in Somalia introduced fractional-dose inactivated polio vaccines (fIPV) in five districts, reaching a total of 80 916 children under the age of five. This pilot project was another innovative milestone for the country, particularly as a fraction of this vaccine offers a specific kind of immunity that is similar to one full dose of inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) in children previously immunized with oral polio vaccine (OPV). The use of fIPV is critical in responding to an outbreak such as the one in Somalia.
“We have come very far in the fight against polio,” said Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, Minister of Health and Human Services, Somalia. “Despite this progress, we still need to ensure threats such as COVID-19 and any future pandemics and emergencies, and other logistical challenges do not reverse any gains made by the polio eradication initiative. On World Polio Day, we are taking this opportunity to renew our promise to every Somali child, to do all we can to keep them free from polio.”
Since the COVID-19 pandemic began, Somalia has conducted two nationwide and seven sub-national door-to-door polio campaigns, typically targeting around 3 258 352 children under age five per campaign across the country, and three small-scale campaigns to target children living in high-risk hotspots.
“WHO remains committed in its resolve to protect Somali children from polio and other vaccine-preventable diseases,” said Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Representative to Somalia. “Every milestone we have witnessed so far, including the new ones such as the introduction of a new, powerful polio vaccines, has years of planning, research and collaboration, coupled with the unwavering support from donors, dedication of health workers and conviction of communities and caregivers behind it. We would like to thank each one of our stakeholders for their commitment.”
“Since the first national campaigns in 1997, a lot has been achieved to save Somali children from preventable paralysis of poliomyelitis,” said UNICEF Representative Mohamed Ayoya. “However, large numbers of children in Somalia do not receive immunization and other necessary health services. On this World Polio Day, we must commit ourselves to ensuring that polio no longer poses a threat to Somali children.  No child should be left behind.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/157946-world-polio-day-2021-delivering-promise-protect-every-somali-child-polio




Date: 19 September 2021
Title: UN Security Council: Press Statement on the Situation in Somalia
Content: 19 September 2021
New York – The Members of the Security Council were briefed by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the current situation in Somalia.
The Members of the Security Council expressed their deep concern about the ongoing disagreement within the Somali Government and the negative impact on the electoral timetable and process. They urged all stakeholders to exercise restraint, and underlined the importance of maintaining peace, security and stability in Somalia.
The Members of the Security Council urged all parties to resolve their differences through dialogue for the good of Somalia and to prioritise the peaceful conduct of transparent, credible and inclusive elections within the agreed timelines and in accordance with the 17 September and 27 May agreements.
The Members of the Security Council urged the Federal Government and the Federal Member States to ensure that any political differences do not divert from united action against Al-Shabaab and other militant groups.
The Members of the Security Council reaffirmed their respect for the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/145004-un-security-council-press-statement-situation-somalia




Date: 17 September 2021
Title: Joint Statement on Dispute Between the President and Prime Minister
Content: 17 September 2021
Mogadishu - As Somalis mark the one-year anniversary of the 17 September Agreement, international partners* are increasingly alarmed that the escalating dispute between the President and Prime Minister will undermine Somalia’s stability and derail the electoral process.
We urge the President and Prime Minister to resolve their differences immediately, avoid further unhelpful exchanges of public statements and personnel announcements, refrain from any action that could destabilize the security situation, and re-focus on concluding the overdue elections without further delay.
The Somali people need and deserve effective and inclusive governance. The ongoing division and politicisation risks undermining the important progress that has been made.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Kenya, League of Arab States, Norway, Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/145005-joint-statement-dispute-between-president-and-prime-minister




Date: 17 September 2021
Title: World Patient Safety Day: Somalia, UN urge all stakeholders to redouble efforts to keep mothers and newborns safe in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 17 September 2021
Mogadishu, 17 September 2021 – While commemorating World Patient Safety Day yesterday, the Federal Government of Somalia, in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), urged health facilities, health care workers and other stakeholders to step up efforts to ensure mothers and newborns remain safe.
This message echoes this year’s theme for World Patient Safety Day — ‘Safe maternal and newborn care’ — and comes at a time when the coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) has disrupted continuity of already overstretched essential health services across the country.
A national ‘pulse survey’, conducted by WHO over seven months in 2020 and 2021 to determine the continuity of essential services in Somalia, found that during May–September 2020, 33% of essential health services had been disrupted (one out of three services), while during January–March 2021, there was continued disruption of 12% of essential health services (six out of 51 services), indicating that substantial disruptions persisted even after one year of the pandemic. Six of the major essential health services (where significant disruptions were noted) include reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health services, that experienced between 5-50% disruption, and immunization services, disrupted by between 5-20%.
Even before the COVID-19 outbreak was confirmed in Somalia, the country was known to have one of the highest maternal mortality rates in the world, at 692 maternal deaths per 100 000, and a neonatal mortality rate of 40 deaths per 1000 live births.
“Before the COVID-19 pandemic, 68% of women did not visit health facilities for antenatal care and only one-third of births were delivered with the help of a qualified health care practitioner,” said Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, Minister of Health and Human Services for Somalia. “Since the COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed in Somalia, women have been making even fewer visits to seek help. I would like to encourage all our partners to reconsider their strategies to ensure more pregnant women access health facilities for antenatal care, deliveries, and immunization, to offer young children a safe start to their lives.”
As part of this year’s World Patient Safety Day commemorations, all partners, including WHO, are urging all stakeholders to “Act now for safe and respectful childbirth.” Ensuring appropriate and respectful treatment to delivering women and their babies will increase trust in health facilities, utilization of services and support by the communities.
“At the points of care, we need to continue to develop the capacity of health care workers, while maintaining the highest standards of hygiene and safety to prevent any potential spread of diseases and to ensure patients recover,” said Dr Mamunur Malik, WHO Representative to Somalia. “At the same time, we need to encourage family members, including men, to bring pregnant mothers to their nearest health centers for regular antenatal care and delivery, to prevent women and children from dying of preventable causes and unsafe care. With concerted efforts, we can save more lives, but we all need to act now to make a change.”
“Having a skilled pair of hands – a well-trained doctor, nurse or midwife – present during pregnancy, birth and beyond, is key in giving every Somali child a chance to survive and thrive from the very beginning,” said UNICEF Somalia Representative, Mohamed Ayoya. “UNICEF is proud to partner with the Government of Somalia to enhance its efforts to reach vulnerable women and children, who need the support most and live in the most disadvantaged areas and endure the harshest conditions, amid the COVID-19 pandemic.”
“Every mother has a right to a safe delivery through skilled birth attendance at birth. This is a service that can be scaled up to reach the underserved and underprivileged population across the country. This can be achieved through the ongoing engagement of the public sector and the services provided by the non-government sector,” said UNFPA Representative, Mr Anders Thomsen.
Mr Thomsen said skilled birth attendance is an evidence-based public health intervention to reduce maternal and neonatal mortality and morbidity.
“UNFPA continues to invest in this effort in close partnership with the Ministry of Health, by supporting health facilities providing life-saving skilled birth attendance at birth as well as ensuring the production of qualified midwives who provide the best option in Somalia for truly reaching the most underserved population in the country with safe and life-saving care,” said Mr. Thomsen.
Introduced in 2019, World Patient Safety Day aims to promote understanding of patient safety, increase public engagement in health care safety, and promote global action to prevent and reduce avoidable harm in health care. This year, on the World Patient Safety Day, WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA committed to support the Federal Ministry of Health and Human Services to introduce new interventions and measures across the health facilities in the country, which will ensure safer maternal and newborn care every year.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/145003-world-patient-safety-day-somalia-un-urge-all-stakeholders-redouble-efforts-keep-mothers-and




Date: 13 September 2021
Title: On Mogadishu Visit, UN Deputy Secretary-General Encourages Sustained Progress on Women’s Political Participation as Well as Peaceful Forthcoming Elections
Content: 13 September 2021
Mogadishu – United Nations Deputy Secretary-General Amina J. Mohammed undertook a visit to Somalia today in solidarity with Somali women’s calls for full and equal participation in political life, and to express the support of the international community for timely, inclusive, peaceful and credible elections.
The Deputy Secretary-General highlighted the country’s parliamentary elections as an opportunity to build on the progress made in women’s political participation and emphasized that women’s full inclusion in all sectors of society will contribute to greater resilience, peace, and stability.
“Somalia achieved a milestone at its last elections in 2016/17 with 24 per cent of parliamentary seats filled by women, and I am hopeful that the country will build on this by expanding women’s participation even further – ensuring the 30 per cent quota is met is an important first step to full representation and an inclusive society. The peace dividend will not happen without women,” Ms. Mohammed said.
While in Mogadishu, the Deputy Secretary-General met with President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed ‘Farmaajo.’ She also met with Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble and the National Consultative Council (NCC), whose membership includes the leaders of the country’s Federal Member States and which is charged with providing overall direction for the elections.
“Prime Minister Roble and other members of the NCC have shown great leadership and commitment to advance women’s political participation, including through specific measures such as decreasing fees for women candidates and appointing Goodwill Ambassadors and Champions to advocate for greater inclusion. It will also be important to agree on a specific mechanism on how exactly the commitment of a minimum 30 per cent quota will be achieved in the upcoming elections,” the Deputy Secretary-General said.
Ms. Mohammed met with Somali elders as well as women leaders and advocates from a range of areas – electoral management bodies, goodwill ambassadors, champions and civil society leaders – and expressed her solidarity with their efforts to bring about greater involvement of women in the country’s political sphere as well as in economic life.
She noted the concerns voiced on the overall situation of Somali women, including levels of violence and insecurity for women, and how this also impacts participation in political life.
“Women should be able to participate in the elections without fear of violence, intimidation and discrimination,” Ms. Mohammed said. “But the same also applies in going about daily life, whether in education, commerce or social life.”
When asked about the case of government agent Ms. Ikran Tahlil Farah, the Deputy Secretary-General said the rule of law and access to justice are critical to protection from violence and are the right of all women.
On the elections and recent political tensions she noted, “Somalia has achieved considerable momentum with its electoral process, and I was encouraged to hear the commitment from all I met with to ensuring that this momentum is sustained and that critical elections move forward as scheduled.”
The Deputy Secretary-General further noted that political discord should not be allowed to threaten gains made in the country.
“I have confidence in Somalia’s leadership to de-escalate any tensions and avoid action that could lead to violence and further delay the elections or undermine its credibility,” she added.
Currently, Somalia is holding elections for its Upper House, and is preparing for elections for its Lower House, known as the House of the People. The United Nations and Somalia’s other international partners have been heavily engaged in supporting national efforts to advance the country’s elections.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/144063-mogadishu-visit-un-deputy-secretary-general-encourages-sustained-progress-women%E2%80%99s-political




Date: 07 September 2021
Title: International Partners Urge Somali Leaders to Reduce Political Tensions and Focus on Electoral Process
Content: 07 September 2021
Mogadishu - International partners* are concerned that the controversy surrounding the disappearance of Ms. Ikran Tahlil Farah is creating political tensions that could impact on the functioning of the Federal Government of Somalia and disrupt the electoral process.
We urge Somali leaders to de-escalate the political confrontation surrounding this investigation and, in particular, avoid any actions that could lead to violence. We call on Somalia’s leaders to work together to advance the implementation of the 27 May Agreement toward the holding of elections, recognizing the progress made to date by the National Consultative Council under the effective leadership of Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble.
We continue to engage a wide range of Somali leaders to urge for a rapid resolution of this dispute, including a credible investigation of Ikran’s disappearance and the completion of the electoral process without any further delay.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Qatar, Russian Federation, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/143476-international-partners-urge-somali-leaders-reduce-political-tensions-and-focus-electoral




Date: 02 September 2021
Title: Somali Government with the support of FAO Launches Regional and National Food Systems Summit Dialogues
Content: 02 September 2021
FAO Somalia and The Federal Government of Somalia have launched the first of a series of virtual regional and national Food System Summit dialogues in preparation for the United Nations Food Systems Summit, to be convened by the Secretary-General in September 2021. The global Food Systems Summit is central to the Decade of Action to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 to deliver progress on all 17 SDGs, each of which rely to some degree on a healthier, more sustainable and equitable food systems. Transforming food systems in Somalia is central to efforts in achieving the goals outlined in Somalia’s National Development Plan and the SDGs and the national dialogues build on pre-summit consultations that occurred earlier in 2021.
The Somalia Food System Summit dialogues, that began with the first sub-national meeting held in Jubaland on Monday around the theme ‘Digital Revolution and Innovation in Food Systems’, are an approach for enabling systematic, inclusive opportunities for people from all walks of life in Somalia to be engaged in food systems. The approach enables Somali participants to contribute to the Summit by building on efforts already underway, working together on pathways that lead to sustainable food systems, and setting out intentions and commitments in the run up to the Global Summit. A series of summits are planned to be held across six different regions and one national summit culminating in a report that identifies a pathway to addressing food systems challenges in Somalia.
Present at the Sub National Jubaland Dialogue on Monday were the curator, Dr. Said Mohamed Hersi, the Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Network Focal Point for Jubaland, Director General of the Jubaland Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, Mr. Mohamed Mursal Hersi, FAO Representative in Somalia, Mr Etienne Peterschmitt, state and federal officials, private sector, non-government organizations, UN representatives from FAO and WFP, and other participants. The key-note speaker for the Jubaland Dialogue was Mr. Sherif El Tokali, an Innovation Specialist from the UNDP Somalia Innovation Lab.
The dialogues, held across seven different locations and thematic priority areas, will promote engaging discussions to identify urgent transformative actions to strengthen resilient agri-food production, address all forms of malnutrition, and respond to global crises such as COVID-19 and climate-change, that are posing risks and vulnerabilities threatening Somalia’s ecosystems and future.
“These seven dialogues will help us to explore regional aspects of food systems in Somalia to further inform how they are shaping national pathways to sustainable food systems,” said Dr. Mohamed Abdi Farrah, National Food Systems Dialogue Convener and Somalia SUN Focal Point. “The findings and solutions from these dialogues will be taken from Somalia to the Global Food Systems Summit as we work to ensure Somalia is not left behind in the Sustainable Development Goals,” he said.
Combatting malnutrition in all its forms is among the most pressing global challenges that countries face today. Urgent actions are needed to address these challenges and the negative impacts associated with malnutrition in Somalia which has some of the highest rates of malnutrition globally. In addition, global crises such as COVID-19, the climate emergency, pollution, biodiversity loss, conflict and other disasters are revealing significant risks and vulnerabilities in Somalia’s food system, posing an existential threat to both humans and ecosystems alike.
“Somalia suffers from multifaceted challenges to the food systems such as drought, locusts, floods and most recently the COVID pandemic. There is no time to waste, and the food systems dialogues provide a rare opportunity for all sectors and stakeholders to come together and commit to actions that can impact the functionality of sustainable and resilient food systems and their ability to deliver healthy diets in Somalia,” said FAO Representative in Somalia, Mr Etienne Peterschmitt.
Somalia’s Food System Summit Dialogues will conclude with a national event hosted by the Somalia National Government in Mogadishu on September 9 after which the findings will be presented by a delegation of the Somali Government to the Global Food Systems Summit on September 23 in New York.
The Summit dialogues in Somalia are supported by FAO Somalia, WFP Somalia and The European Union.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/142723-somali-government-support-fao-launches-regional-and-national-food-systems-summit-dialogues




Date: 30 August 2021
Title: Somalia launches Child Protection Information Management System to protect vulnerable children amid COVID-19
Content: 30 August 2021
Mogadishu, Somalia, 30 August 2021 – The Federal Ministry of Women and Human Rights Development, in partnership with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), launched today an online Child Protection Information Management System (CPIMS+) to enhance the protection of the most vulnerable children in Somalia.
“Today, we’re taking a crucial step towards keeping the extremely vulnerable children – including children living in the streets, child survivors of sexual violence, children in conflict with the law, abandoned babies, and children without primary caregivers – in our country safe. The CPIMS+ will strengthen our collective ability to identify these children, provide them with lifesaving services, and protect them from exploitation and abuse,” said Somalia’s Minister of Women and Human Rights Development, H.E. Hanifa M. Ibrahim.
In Somalia, 1.8 million children are at risk of violence, abuse and neglect due to the ongoing conflict, reoccurring climatic shocks, poverty, and the socioeconomic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic[1]. Violence prevention and response services remain disrupted and many parents and caregivers are under increasing financial strain and at risk of losing their jobs.
To support the children bearing the biggest brunt and to strengthen the case management services in the country, the Federal Ministry of Women and Human Rights Development, UNICEF and child protection partners worked together to customize and deploy the new information management system, an important platform for professional social workers to coordinate social, legal, clinical, and psychosocial services for the children in need.
“The adoption of innovative technologies provides a significant opportunity for safeguarding children in Somalia,” said UNICEF Representative in Somalia, Mohamed Ayoya. “The launch of CPMIS+ represents another key milestone in the Government’s efforts to provide accountable and professional social services and it will help to ensure no child, even in the most challenging circumstances, is left behind.”
The CPIMS+ provides intuitive digital forms for child protection workers to assist with documenting case management processes, from identification and registration, to assessment, case planning, referrals and transfers, and case closure.
Its key features will help child protection workers reach children with vital protection and support. These features include:
More than 30 partners, consisting of UN agencies and local NGOs, have subscribed to the CPIMS+. This translates to 190 users covering an estimated caseload of 25,000 children at risk in Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/142309-somalia-launches-child-protection-information-management-system-protect-vulnerable-children




Date: 25 August 2021
Title: International Partners on Somalia's Electoral Process
Content: 25 August 2021
Somalia’s international partners* welcome the convening of the National Consultative Council (NCC) on 21 and 22 August, and commend the regular NCC consultation towards furthering the electoral process.
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* welcome the convening of the National Consultative Council (NCC) on 21 and 22 August, and commend the regular NCC consultation towards furthering the electoral process.
We note the finalization of the Upper House elections in Puntland and South West State  and the start of the process in Jubaland and Galmudug. We also note concerns that have been raised regarding the Upper House process and call on the NCC to address these issues in support of a transparent, timely, inclusive and credible process for the House of the People elections.
Recalling that 24 per cent of the Upper House seats have so far been filled by women, we call for the redoubling of efforts to achieve at least the 30 per cent quota of seats in both Houses of Parliament going to women.
We welcome the establishment of the National Electoral Security Committee and call for the resumption of meetings of the committee to ensure security arrangements are in place in all polling locations ahead of the Lower House elections and that consideration is given to women delegates, candidates and committee members security.
The partners share with the NCC and other stakeholders the belief that the integrity of the electoral process is critical for the stability of Somalia, and we therefore encourage the NCC to take the necessary steps to ensure the credible, transparent and timely completion of the electoral process.
International Partners look forward to continued partnership towards the transparent and timely implementation of the electoral process.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, China, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/142116-international-partners-somalias-electoral-process




Date: 20 August 2021
Title: Children in Somalia at ‘extremely high risk’ of the impacts of the climate crisis - UNICEF
Content: 20 August 2021
For the first time, UNICEF ranks countries based on children’s exposure and vulnerability to climate and environmental shocks, with Somali children the world’s 4th most vulnerable.
MOGADISHU, 20 August 2021 – Young people living in Somalia are among those most at risk of the impacts of climate change, threatening their health, education, and protection, according to a UNICEF report launched today.
‘The Climate Crisis Is a Child Rights Crisis: Introducing the Children’s Climate Risk Index’ is the first comprehensive analysis of climate risk from a child’s perspective. It ranks countries based on children’s exposure to climate and environmental shocks, such as cyclones and heatwaves, as well as their vulnerability to those shocks, based on their access to essential services.
The report finds approximately 1 billion children – nearly half the world's 2.2 billion children – live in one of the 33 countries classified as “extremely high-risk”. The findings reflect the number of children impacted today; figures likely to get worse as the impacts of climate change accelerate.
Somalia is among these countries, with a ranking of 4th. The report found Somali children are highly exposed to soil and water pollution and riverine flooding, but also that investments in social services, particularly child health and nutrition as well as water, hygiene and sanitation can make a significant difference in our ability to safeguard their futures from the impacts of climate change.
“The climate crisis is a child’s rights crisis,” said UNICEF Somalia Representative Mohamed Ayoya. “Building communities’ resilience is pivotal in protecting Somali children and their future from the impacts of a changing climate and degrading environment. We need to act collectively and invest in critical water, healthcare and education services children depend upon to survive and thrive.”
The report also reveals a disconnect between where greenhouse gas emissions are generated, and where children are enduring the most significant climate-driven impacts. The 33 extremely high-risk countries collectively emit just 9 per cent of global CO2 emissions. Conversely, the 10 highest emitting countries collectively account for nearly 70 per cent of global emissions. Only one of these countries is ranked as ‘extremely high-risk’ in the index.
“The frightening environmental changes we are seeing across the planet are being driven by a few but experienced by many,” said Representative Ayoya. “We must urgently reduce greenhouse gas emissions and work as a global community to build a better world for all children.”
Without the urgent action required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, children will continue to suffer the most. Compared to adults, children require more food and water per unit of their body weight, are less able to survive extreme weather events, and are more susceptible to toxic chemicals, temperature changes and diseases, among other factors.
UNICEF is calling on governments, businesses and relevant actors to:

#####
Notes to Editors:
The CCRI was developed in collaboration with several partners including the Data for Children Collaborative.
In order to make the report more accessible to global youth, UNICEF also collaborated with Climate Cardinals, an international youth led non-profit which translates climate change research and information so that they can reach as many young people and leaders as possible.

Read the report

About UNICEF
UNICEF works in some of the world’s toughest places, to reach the world’s most disadvantaged children. Across more than 190 countries and territories, we work for every child, everywhere, to build a better world for everyone. For more information about UNICEF and its work, visit: www.unicef.org

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/141312-children-somalia-%E2%80%98extremely-high-risk%E2%80%99-impacts-climate-crisis-unicef




Date: 19 August 2021
Title: Press Statement by the Deputy Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia on World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2021
Mogadishu, 19 August 2021 – On this World Humanitarian Day, I wish to draw attention to the global climate crisis ravaging our planet. Its scale has become too enormous to ignore. We must act collectively and urgently to stave off further destruction.
Somalia is a prime example of how the climate emergency disproportionally impacts the most vulnerable, despite the fact that they contribute to it the least. The country’s cyclical droughts and floods make water either a short supply with drought-like conditions or a destructive force that sweeps away all life in its path and breaks embankments. The effects of climate change also increasingly extend into the social, political and security realm.
In April, the Government, in consultation with the UN, declared a drought in the country after 80 per cent of the nation had experienced drought conditions. Other parts of Somalia were flooded, further driving displacement in a country where one out of every four people has been forced from their home.
Some 5.9 million Somalis urgently need humanitarian support. Despite growing needs, the Humanitarian Response Plan is only funded at 40 per cent. The cost of inaction will be devastating. Without additional support, the fragile gains we have made thus far will be easily unravelled.
We are in a race against time, a race to prioritise and address the needs of the most vulnerable Somalis and to break this vicious cycle of environmental degradation, displacement and loss of livelihoods. This means investment in short, medium and long-term solutions that can resist future climate shocks, use of nature-based solutions and low carbon energy sources, and strengthening resilience and adaptive capabilities of the affected communities. The recently launched Somalia’s National Water Strategy is an important step forward.
I call on everyone to join the #TheHumanRace and ensure the concerns of the most vulnerable Somalis are at the top of the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26) in November.
Today, we also remember humanitarians who lost their lives or became injured in the course of their work. Every day, humanitarian partners in Somalia provide life-saving assistance to those who need it most. Risking everything, they ensure support is delivered in today’s unprecedented times of climate crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic and security challenges.
This year alone, 146 incidents impacting humanitarian operations have been recorded in Somalia. One humanitarian worker was killed, five injured, one abducted and three were detained or temporarily arrested. Targeting humanitarian workers is an egregious violation of international humanitarian law and such attacks must never be tolerated. I implore all parties to do their part to ensure protection of all humanitarian workers as they continue to provide support to the most at-risk communities.


UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/140780-press-statement-deputy-special-representative-un-secretary-general-resident-and-humanitarian




Date: 14 August 2021
Title: Federal Government of Somalia boosts efforts to vaccinate communities against COVID-19
Content: 14 August 2021
Somalia received 302,400 doses of the Johnson and Johnson (J&J) COVID-19 vaccine through the COVAX facility today. The J&J vaccines, donated by the United States, are the first single-dose vaccines to be distributed in Somalia to expand the COVID-19 vaccination coverage in the country and enable additional Somalis to be fully vaccinated with one shot.
Mogadishu – Somalia received 302,400 doses of the Johnson and Johnson (J&J) COVID-19 vaccine through the COVAX facility today. The J&J vaccines, donated by the United States, are the first single-dose vaccines to be distributed in Somalia to expand the COVID-19 vaccination coverage in the country and enable additional Somalis to be fully vaccinated with one shot.
“In this race against time to end this pandemic and vaccinate people, it is critical that as many safe and effective vaccines as possible are available to Somalia’s general public” said Somalia’s Federal Minister of Health, H.E. Dr. Fawziya Abikar Nur. “I would like to send my gratitude to the Government of United States for this donation as it is crucial in our continued fight against COVID-19 and I urge everyone eligible to get vaccinated.”
Since the start of the COVID-19 outbreak, 16,103 laboratory-confirmed cases, including 864 deaths, have been reported in Somalia. The COVID-19 vaccination uptake among the general population remains low and as of 11 August 2021, only 93,458 Somalis have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19.
“The vaccines help protect Somalis against Covid-19 and are an important step towards a return to normalcy” said the United Nations Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Somalia, Anita Kiki Gbeho.
“On behalf of the United Nations in Somalia, I would like to congratulate the Government of Somalia, and particularly the Ministry of Health and Her Excellency the Minister, for reaching this critical milestone along the COVID prevention path; important to keeping Somali families and communities safe and in reducing the spread of COVID-19.”
The J&J vaccines can be stored using standard vaccine storage equipment for routine vaccines, enabling the supplies to be distributed to far-to-reach areas, where populations can be fully protected with a single dose. Frontline workers, people with pre-existing conditions and eligible people continue to be prioritized with the vaccinations.
WHO and UNICEF will continue supporting the federal and state ministries of health to ensure the equitable distribution of the vaccines through the management of cold chain systems; training of vaccinators to administer vaccines safely; monitoring the vaccine uptake, particularly by eligible and vulnerable populations; and encouraging the uptake of the vaccine and the continuation of the critical, life-saving preventive COVID-19 behaviours in communities.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/140218-federal-government-somalia-boosts-efforts-vaccinate-communities-against-covid-19




Date: 12 August 2021
Title: The UN in Somalia, FAO Somalia, and the Federal Government of Somalia Mark International Youth Day
Content: 12 August 2021
The United Nations in Somalia in partnership with FAO Somalia, held a joint virtual event to mark this year’s International Youth Day. The event was attended by participants from across government, UN agencies, civil society, private sector, and the media. The event created a platform for meaningful engagement with youth, agripreneurs and key stakeholders, to share innovative ideas on how to transform food systems in Somalia and focused on empowering young people with the necessary information to thrive in the agriculture and agribusiness sector.
The United Nations in Somalia in partnership with FAO Somalia, held a joint virtual event to mark this year’s International Youth Day. The event was attended by participants from across government, UN agencies, civil society, private sector, and the media. The event created a platform for meaningful engagement with youth, agripreneurs and key stakeholders, to share innovative ideas on how to transform food systems in Somalia and focused on empowering young people with the necessary information to thrive in the agriculture and agribusiness sector.
Aligning with this year’s theme “Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health”, the virtual event highlighted how youth need to be at the centre of food system transformation through an inclusive approach. This focus on food systems transformation reflects the systemic changes required to eradicate poverty and inequalities, sustaining biodiversity and boost economies by creating employment opportunities for the youth.
‘We need to create better food systems that meet the food and nutrition needs for all, while withstanding covariate shocks. Food systems must be inclusive and economically sustainable to have higher positive impacts,” said Said Hussein Iid, Minister of Agriculture and Irrigation of the Federal Government of Somalia.
The backbone of the economy
According to the African Development Bank (AfDB) report, Africa has 420 million young people aged between 15 to 35 and every year there is an influx of 10 to 15 million young people joining the job market. In Somalia, young people make up over 75 per cent of the population and there is a need to harness this growing workforce for it to contribute to the Somali economy.
“This year’s International Youth Day couldn’t have come at a better time as most of the population in Somalia is dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. Therefore, a dialogue on how to invest and empower Somali youth in agribusiness is crucial as they are the backbone of our economy,” said Hamza Said Hamza, the Minister of Youth and Sports of the Federal Government of Somalia.
"Today’s youth have the capability to amplify the restoration of lives and livelihoods, while integrating biodiversity in the transformation of food systems, but only with considerable investment in skills and access to agri-business opportunities. “The benefits of this generation of youth will greatly depend on how well they are prepared for doing business, accessing employment and generating income from their livelihoods, especially in this digital economy,” said Cesar Arroyo, acting Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator & WFP Representative in Somalia.
A greater urgency
Avenues for youth to obtain an education, gainful employment, as well have opportunities to engage politically, economically, or socially remain limited. Despite these challenges, young Somalis are already contributing to the resilience of their communities, proposing and adopting innovative digital solutions, and driving social progress in urban as well as rural contexts.
“Now, more than ever, there is greater urgency to work with the youth, Government and other stakeholders, in ensuring sustainable, youth-centric, socio-economic livelihoods and promote their empowerment whilst transforming food systems in Somalia,” said FAO Representative Etienne Peterschmitt.
The Representative also noted that the COVID-19 global pandemic has further widened the divide between youth and development and jeopardizes progress made in food systems.
The webinar featured a recital by Somali youth poet and activist Suhayra Sahal, as well as contributions from
UN Youth Advisory Board members, Kheyriya Mohamed Abdirahman Sabrie and other members. The Youth Advisory Board members led break out discussions in the thematic areas of ‘Youth and Digital Revolution in Agri-business in Somalia and ‘Opportunities for youth in Agri-Food Systems and livelihoods in Somalia’.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/139941-un-somalia-fao-somalia-and-federal-government-somalia-mark-international-youth-day




Date: 08 August 2021
Title: 108,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines donated by France arrive in Somalia
Content: 08 August 2021
Today, 108,000 doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine arrived in Somalia. The vaccines were donated by the Government of France through the COVAX Facility, a partnership between the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO), in continued efforts to protect Somalia’s population from COVID-19.
Mogadishu, 8 August 2021 – Today, 108,000 doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine arrived in Somalia. The vaccines were donated by the Government of France through the COVAX Facility, a partnership between the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO), in continued efforts to protect Somalia’s population from COVID-19.
“The Government of France is committed, along with the EU and COVAX partners, to help Somalia bolster vaccination efforts so that additional frontline workers and other high-risk populations in Somalia can be protected from COVID-19,” said Aline Kuster-Menager, the French Ambassador to Somalia. “This donation is part of a global effort from France: President Macron has pledged to give 60 million doses of the vaccine before the end of 2021. This is a global pandemic and France is committed to ensuring the equitable distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine around the world. If we are to contain the spread of COVID-19, we have to work together.”
Since the outbreak began on March 2020, Somalia has reported a total of 15,257 laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID-19 including 789 deaths as of 24 July 2021. Owing to low vaccination coverage in the country where less than 1% of the country’s population are fully vaccinated, the country faces the dual challenge of improving the uptake amongst its general population as well as to ensure an equitable and  predictable supply of COVID-19 vaccines to support an effective rollout of mass vaccination.
“The arrival of this new batch of COVID-19 vaccines comes at a critical time, as cases in Somalia are on the rise,” said HE Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, Somalia’s Federal Minister of Health and Human Services. “The only way to stop the spread of the virus is to get the population vaccinated. We are grateful for this latest donation from the Government of France and I call on all those eligible to get vaccinated.”
Somalia will continue to prioritize frontline health and other essential workers, the elderly, and people with chronic health conditions in this next phase of the roll out of the COVID-19 vaccine. To date, an estimated 186,094 people in Somalia have received their first dose of the vaccine and 92,792 have received their second.
“We appreciate the commitment of the French Government to ensure the equitable delivery of COVID-19 vaccines by providing much needed doses to Somalia,” said Mohamed Ayoya, UNICEF Somalia Representative. “This timely support will be critical in increasing the number of people vaccinated against COVID-19, particularly the health workers so they can continue to provide essential health care for Somali children and their families.”
WHO and UNICEF will continue to support the Ministry of Health to ensure the safe and equitable distribution of the vaccines through the management of cold chain systems and in the training of vaccinators and the monitoring of vaccine utilization. Efforts will also continue to promote the safety and uptake of the COVID-19 vaccine.
“If we can end the pandemic in Somalia, we can end it everywhere. The country’s fragile health system, high number of its population, especially the high-risk people, still to be vaccinated can make the virus more transmissible and we risk emergence of a new variant of the virus in the country if we cannot roll out the vaccination programme against COVID-19 with speed and scale.  The vaccines against the COVID-19 are remarkably safe and effective. These are our only hopes to end the pandemic from Somalia and elsewhere,” said Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Representative to Somalia. “We remain thankful to the Government of France for their kind support in providing these vaccines for the people of Somalia.”
###
For additional information, kindly contact:
Bile Abdi – Press and Communications, Federal Ministry of Health, communications@nih.gov.so
Larry Asego – Press and Communications Counsellor, French Embassy, larry.asego@diplomatie.gouv.fr +254 722 255 422
Fouzia Bano – WHO Chief of Staff ai, Communications Officer, banof@who.int; +252 619 235 880
Eva Hinds – UNICEF Communication Manager, ehinds@unicef.org; +252 613 642 635
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/139268-108000-doses-covid-19-vaccines-donated-france-arrive-somalia




Date: 01 August 2021
Title: Somali Government, UNICEF and WHO mark World Breastfeeding Week with a call to protect, promote and support breastfeeding
Content: 01 August 2021
Mogadishu, 1 August 2021 – While marking World Breastfeeding Week this year, the Federal Ministry of Health in Somalia, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and World Health Organization (WHO) called for a concerted effort to create an enabling environment for Somali mothers to breastfeed their babies to improve their health, nutritional status and overall wellbeing.
“We are calling on all actors from household level through community leadership up to policy makers and development partners to actively take breastfeeding as everyone’s responsibility,” said Dr Abdinasir Mukhtar Ibrahim, the Director General of Somalia’s Federal Ministry of Health and Human Services. “Together, through commitment, concerted action and collaboration, we can build strong collaborative systems for provision of appropriate and skilled breastfeeding counseling to mothers and ensure that our children are fed in the appropriate way for a healthy nation.”
This call to action comes as Somalia witnesses an increase in child malnutrition, including reduction in infant and young child feeding practices, due to steep declines in household incomes among other challenges posed by shocks such as drought, flooding and the COVID-19 pandemic. The advice is also in line with the global theme for the week, which is to ‘Protect Breastfeeding: A Shared Responsibility.’
WHO and UNICEF recommend early initiation of breastfeeding within the first hour of birth, feeding the child only breast milk for the first 6 months (exclusive breastfeeding), and continuing to breastfeed for up to 24 months or beyond, with the introduction of nutritionally adequate and safe complementary (solid) foods at 6 months.
“Breastfeeding provides children the best start in life,” said Nejmudin Bilal, Acting UNICEF Representative in Somalia. “It is a baby’s best source of nutrition, bolstering brain development with lifelong benefits. Early initiation of breastfeeding offers a powerful line of defense against all forms of childhood malnutrition including wasting.”
During World Breastfeeding Week, breastfeeding awareness campaigns will be launched throughout the country and skilled breastfeeding counselling will be provided in a variety of settings including health facilities and clinics and through home visits by community health workers. The campaign will also stress that it is still safe to breastfeed during the COVID-19 pandemic.
“Even in the context of COVID-19, WHO recommends that mothers with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 should be encouraged to initiate and continue breastfeeding, while implementing appropriate hygiene measures, such as wearing a medical mask, if available, to reduce the chances of droplets with COVID-19 being spread to her infant. The benefits of breastfeeding substantially outweigh the potential risks of COVID-19 transmission,” said Dr Mamunur Malik, WHO Representative to Somalia. “So far, active COVID-19 (virus that can cause infection) has not been detected in breast milk of any mother with confirmed/suspected COVID-19.”
In addition, as part of the Federal Ministry of Health’s national nutrition strategy 2020-2025, countrywide efforts will be scaled up with the primary goal to increase the number of babies aged 0-6 months old who are exclusively breastfed to above 50% by 2025.  According to the latest government data, only 34% of babies under 6 months are exclusive breastfeeding.
“Breastfeeding must be considered a public health issue that requires supportive interventions at all levels. Together, we can ensure that every mother has access to skilled breastfeeding counselling, empowering her to give her baby the best possible start in life,” added the Director General.
Note to editors:
The Federal Minister of Health and Human Services, UNICEF and partners will continue advocating for signing and full implementation of the International Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes & subsequent WHA resolutions.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/138253-somali-government-unicef-and-who-mark-world-breastfeeding-week-call-protect-promote-and




Date: 30 July 2021
Title: Partners Welcome Progress and Urge Further Steps to Implement 27 May Agreement
Content: 30 July 2021
Mogadishu  – International partners* welcome the progress made in implementing the 27 May Agreement signed by Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble and the Federal Member State (FMS) presidents and call on the FMS to organize without delay the Upper House elections, which were to have started on July 25.   
 
Among recent examples of progress:  An updated electoral calendar has been adopted. Most election management bodies have now been constituted and have chosen their leaders.  The mandated FMS ministerial committee held consultations in Garbaharrey.  An initial meeting of the Election Security Committee was convened. The PM appointed Goodwill Ambassadors to promote the women’s 30 percent quota. Upper House elections have started in Jubaland.  The National Consultative Council held regular meetings and dialogue.  All these are laudable achievements.
 
We urge that remaining work to conclude the electoral process advance quickly and in the same spirit of consensus.  Urgent priorities include:  further detailed preparations for electoral security, clarity on measures to secure 30 percent women’s representation in Parliament, and resolution of the dispute over the pending election management committee.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/138513-partners-welcome-progress-and-urge-further-steps-implement-27-may-agreement




Date: 20 July 2021
Title: UN Extends Eid al-Adha Greetings to all Somalis
Content: 20 July 2021
Mogadishu – The United Nations family in Somalia wishes all Somalis “Eid Mubarak.”
“Warm Eid al-Adha greetings from the United Nations family in Somalia,” said James Swan, the UN Secretary-General Special Representative for Somalia.
“We join Somalis as they mark this day, and in their hope for reconciliation, kindness, solidarity and peace. Ciid Wanaangsan.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/136720-un-extends-eid-al-adha-greetings-all-somalis




Date: 05 July 2021
Title: International Partners Welcome National Consultative Council Meeting
Content: 05 July 2021
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* welcome the successful conclusion of the National Consultative Council (NCC) meeting on 29 June and commend Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble and the Federal Member State leaders for their constructive discussions.  The positive atmosphere at the meeting, including engagement with other stakeholders such as the Council of Presidential Candidates, is fundamental to continued progress toward elections.
We note the NCC took important decisions on the election timetable and the role of the Technical Election Support Team and its expansion to include Federal Member State representatives. We welcome the decision to halve registration fees for women candidates and look forward to further steps to secure the agreed 30 percent quota for women’s representation.
We call on all stakeholders, including the election management bodies, to proceed diligently to deliver on their responsibilities and commitments without delay.  We encourage the Somali leaders to continue regular, constructive, and cooperative dialogue throughout the electoral process to resolve any issues that may arise. We are convinced that a swift, peaceful, and credible electoral process will help return Somalia to the path of stability and prosperity.
Somalia’s international partners remain ready to support.

*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/134656-international-partners-welcome-national-consultative-council-meeting




Date: 01 July 2021
Title: UN Special Representative James Swan Congratulates Somalia on the Independence Anniversary
Content: 01 July 2021
Mogadishu – The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia, James Swan, congratulates the people and government of Somalia on the anniversary of their country’s independence.
On this day, sixty-one years ago, the people of Somalia realised their independent sovereign nation and committed themselves to build a peaceful and prosperous nation based on unity, equality and justice. This commitment continues today and has been recently demonstrated through the successful summit of 27 May and the continued engagements to pave the way towards national elections.
“As Somalia celebrates Independence Day, the United Nations and international partners recommit their pledge to work with the Somali people and support a peaceful future for the country,” said SRSG Swan.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/134537-un-special-representative-james-swan-congratulates-somalia-independence-anniversary




Date: 27 May 2021
Title: International Partners Welcome the Successful Conclusion of the FGS-FMS Summit
Content: 27 May 2021
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* welcome the successful conclusion of the Federal Government of Somalia – Federal Member States (FGS-FMS) summit in Mogadishu.
We commend Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble for his leadership of this process, as well as the Federal Member State Presidents,  the Governor of the Banadir Administrative Region, and other political figures who engaged constructively in the talks.  We thank President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed ‘Farmaajo’ for his appeal on 1 May to revert to the consensus-based 17 September electoral model.
We now urge all stakeholders to move forward swiftly to organize inclusive and transparent elections without delay. We call on Somali leaders to resolve any future disputes through regular dialogue among the signatories of the 17 September Agreement.
International partners stand ready to support Somalia’s leaders to implement this historic agreement.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany,  Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Poland, Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/129273-international-partners-welcome-successful-conclusion-fgs-fms-summit




Date: 25 May 2021
Title: Sweden contributes SEK75 million to UNICEF to scale up protection and health services for Somali women and children
Content: 25 May 2021
Mogadishu –  The Government of Sweden, through its partnership with UNICEF, has donated SEK75 million (USD9 million) to strengthen health and protection services for Somali women and children. The funding will also support the COVID-19 vaccination campaign which is currently underway and is one of the largest immunization drives the country has undertaken.
“Children deserve to have a healthy start in life and to grow up in a safe environment where their protection rights are upheld,” said Ambassador Staffan Tillander, the Swedish Ambassador to Somalia. “This funding will strengthen access to essential health and protection services and underscores Sweden’s long-term commitment to improving the lives of Somali women and children.”
The contribution also comes at a critical time as Somalia is currently experiencing a surge in COVID-19 cases and the roll out of the COVID-19 vaccination has been hampered by a lack of funding. To date, Somalia received 300,000 doses of the COVID-19 vaccination from the COVAX facility and only 40% of the doses have been administered.
“It is critical that we scale up the COVID-19 vaccination campaign to reach the most vulnerable populations and frontline workers in Somalia. The fight against COVID-19 is a global one and part of this funding will help support UNICEF and WHO to speed up the vaccination effort so that the second wave of COVID-19 is contained,” added the Ambassador.
With the dedicated funds to scale up the COVID-19 vaccination campaign, UNICEF and WHO will be able to improve cold chain capacity, support the government in training health workers on how to administer the vaccine safely, monitoring vaccine utilization and accountability through stock management and reporting. The contribution will also enable UNICEF and partners to continue to train and deploy social mobilizers to educate communities on the value and effectiveness of the vaccine and to reinforce the importance of continuing COVID-19 prevention measures.
Outside of bolstering the Government’s ongoing response to COVID-19, the contribution will improve access to maternal, newborn and child health services reaching over 1 million women and children. In addition, funding will crucially strengthen national and sub-national capacities to plan, deliver, monitor, and report on quality health services and supplies.
The assistance will also enable UNICEF to support the strengthening of child rights and expand critical child protection services throughout the country including a pioneering safe schools programme to eliminate discrimination against girls and prevent harmful practices such as FGM and child marriage. It will also support innovative mental health initiatives for children affected by armed conflict, including former child soldiers, children maimed in conflict and survivors of rape and sexual violence.
“UNICEF is extremely grateful to the Government of Sweden for this generous contribution,” said Jesper Moller, UNICEF Acting Representative in Somalia. “Every child has a right to health and protection. This multi-year funding provides us with the much-needed opportunity to work harder on long-term solutions and do more to keep Somali children and their families healthy and safe especially in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/129274-sweden-contributes-sek75-million-unicef-scale-protection-and-health-services-somali-women




Date: 21 May 2021
Title: International Partners Statement of Support for FGS-FMS Summit
Content: 21 May 2021
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* consider the upcoming Federal Government of Somalia – Federal Member States (FGS-FMS) summit in Mogadishu as a critical opportunity that must not be missed to advance peace and security in Somalia.
We commend Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble for convening the summit and look forward to his continued leadership in the electoral process, including electoral security.
We welcome the commitment of all FMS leaders to participate in the summit without preconditions.
We call on all FGS and FMS leaders to make constructive compromises to reach agreement quickly, so that the country can swiftly organize elections based on the 17 September Agreement.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Qatar, Russian Federation, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/127291-international-partners-statement-support-fgs-fms-summit




Date: 13 May 2021
Title: UN Wishes Peaceful and Safe Eid-al-Fitr to all Somalis
Content: 13 May 2021
Mogadishu – The United Nations family in Somalia extends warm greetings to all Somalis on the occasion of Eid-al-Fitr, to mark the end of the holy month of Ramadan and celebration of peace and hope.
“The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact people observing Ramadan in Somalia and across the world, for the second year in a row, restricting in person gatherings of families and loved ones during a time of togetherness.”  said James Swan, the UN Secretary-General Special Representative for Somalia.
“The great effort that Somalis have made to observe the health guidelines imposed by health authorities has helped protect families and communities as well as control the spread of the virus. However, it is too early to let our guard down, therefore I encourage everyone to continue to observe the health protocols and celebrate Eid safely in a spirit of joy, reconciliation, kindness, and solidarity. Ciid Wanaangsan.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/126852-un-wishes-peaceful-and-safe-eid-al-fitr-all-somalis




Date: 08 May 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General - on the African Union High Representative for Somalia
Content: 08 May 2021
New York – The Secretary-General welcomes the appointment of H.E. John Dramani Mahama of Ghana as African Union High Representative for Somalia and expresses the full support of the United Nations for this African Union initiative.
​He calls on all actors to engage with the African Union High Representative and resume talks towards the implementation of the 17 September Electoral Agreement for the holding of timely and inclusive elections.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/126540-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-african-union-high-representative




Date: 03 May 2021
Title: Statement on the Occasion of World Press Freedom Day
Content: 03 May 2021
Mogadishu, 3 May 2021 – On the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Somalia, James Swan,  reaffirmed the importance of this annual celebration, as it provides an opportunity to advance the principles of press freedom and to pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in the line of duty.
SRSG Swan noted UNSOM’s role in contributing to a vibrant media in Somalia through several trainings. “This year the Mission plans to conduct capacity building trainings for about 160 journalists, to date approximately 45 journalists have been trained. The workshops aim at strengthening the capacity of Somali journalists in freedom of expression, rights and responsibilities and women’s political participation.”
A free, independent and pluralistic media has never been so important to empower Somali women and men, strengthen good governance and the rule of law, and take forward the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
“This year’s theme, ‘Information as a Public Good’ responds to the covid-19 global pandemic, recognizing that with information which is freely distributed and received, families and communities can be guided and saved.”
“In April UNSOM supported the Federation of Somali Journalists (FESOJ) to hold a three-day virtual capacity-building workshop for journalists from the different federal states on promoting advocacy towards COVAX Vaccine Rollout for COVID-19 in Somalia,” Swan said.
SRSG Swan noted that although this year celebrates the 30th anniversary of the Windhoek Declaration for the Development of a Free, Independent and Pluralistic African Press, it should also serve as a reminder that the media are still being censored, fined, suspended, harassed, attacked, detained and even murdered.
The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of which Somalia is a signatory, establishes that freedom of expression is a fundamental human right.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/126103-statement-occasion-world-press-freedom-day




Date: 01 May 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Somalia
Content: 01 May 2021
The Secretary-General welcomes the decision of the Lower House of the Federal Parliament to nullify the “Special Law on Federal Elections” and return to the electoral modalities outlined in the 17 September Electoral Agreement.
The Secretary-General reiterates his call to all Somali stakeholders to resume dialogue immediately and forge a consensual agreement on the holding of inclusive elections without further delay. He stresses the importance of a broad-based consensus for the country’s stability.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/126088-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-somalia




Date: 30 April 2021
Title: World Immunization Week – Ministry of Health, WHO, UNICEF and partners commit to improve vaccination coverage against COVID-19 and other vaccine-preventable diseases in Somalia
Content: 30 April 2021
Joint press release by UNICEF, WHO and Ministry of Health in Somalia
MOGADISHU, 30 April 2021 – Vaccines protect us against preventable diseases, including COVID-19. They bring us closer to a healthier world and are permissible to be taken during the holy month of Ramadan -- these are the main messages the Federal Ministry of Health and Human Services, World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in Somalia are sharing this World Immunization Week, running from 24 to 30 April 2021. On this occasion, the Federal Ministry of Health, WHO and UNICEF are renewing their commitments to ensure that every child is counted for vaccination against vaccine-preventable diseases.
This year, World Immunization Week comes at a time when the country is conducting one of its largest, much needed vaccination campaigns, against COVID-19. Every year, during the last week of April, World Immunization Week is observed to encourage the use of vaccines to protect people of all ages against disease. The theme for this year is ‘vaccines bring us closer’ – to encourage greater global participation around immunization and to demonstrate to communities, politicians and other audiences that vaccines do indeed bring families, communities and countries closer together.
With support from the Federal and State Governments of Somalia, WHO, UNICEF and other agencies have been providing vaccines – while observing COVID-19 protocol since last year-- to Somalis of all ages and backgrounds – against preventable diseases such as measles, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis B, haemophilus influenza type b, cholera, tuberculosis, polio and now against COVID-19.
Since the resumption of mass vaccination campaigns, which had been paused due to the COVID-19 epidemic in 2020, Somali authorities, with support from WHO, UNICEF and other partners, have conducted five targeted campaigns and one nationwide campaign, where approximately three million children were offered vaccines to protect them from polio. In addition, 514,567 (83% of the target) and 450,983 (73% of the target) children aged under one year received pentavalent 1 and pentavalent 3 vaccines respectively. Overall, 433,863 (70% of the target) children aged under one year received their first doses of measles vaccines to protect them against this highly infectious disease.
“Smallpox's last resting place was in Somalia. But, thanks to concerted and collaborative efforts, we were able to eliminate the disease. Polio is on the verge of being eradicated. In reality, with the help of partners, Somalia's circulating poliovirus type 3 (cVDPV3) outbreak was successfully stopped this year, 28 months after it was reported, with no further international spread from our country. That should suffice to convince us that we can do it again. If we act now and together, we will stop the spread of all vaccine-preventable diseases,” said HE Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, Minister of Health and Human Services, Federal Government of Somalia.
“However, politicians, our foreign and national partners, societies, parents, women, youth, scholars, the private sector, NGOs and donors all have a role to play. We should all play a role in ensuring that Somalis receive vaccines appropriate for their age groups. Since the rollout of the COVID-19 vaccine on 16 March 2021, and until 28 April 2021, 121,743 people in Somalia had received their first doses of the Oxford Astra-Zeneca vaccine to protect them from COVID-19. The uptake remains considerably low (at 40.6%) though. There is a need to increase the uptake of vaccinations, by health workers, frontline workers, elderly populations and people suffering from chronic illnesses, with the first batch of 300,000 vaccines -- which arrived in the country on 15 March 2021.”
“We are at a critical time, where we can save humanity from the COVID-19 pandemic, especially as we have tools like vaccines to protect people. In Somalia, we remain concerned that the current uptake of the vaccine is not optimal. The pandemic will not end if it doesn’t end in Somalia and other conflict-affected countries with very weak and fragile health systems,” said Dr Mamunur Malik, WHO Representative for Somalia.
Addressing people’s concerns regarding the uptake of the COVID-19 vaccine during Ramadan, Dr Malik explained:
“I want to assure people that two Fatwas have been issued by the Al-Azhar Al-Sharif and the International Islamic Fiqh Academy (IIFA), the co-chairs of the Islamic Advisory Group. The Fatwas offer advice that it is permissible to take COVID-19 vaccinations, as this vaccine goes into the muscles, not bloodstream. We must share information with our loved ones and friends about the benefits of vaccination. In the last decade, at least 10 million deaths have been prevented by vaccines, and more lives have been saved by vaccines in the history of medicine. Vaccines are the most cost-effective health technology ever invested in, during the history of our civilization. We are responsible for our health and that of our children. We should support them in accessing vaccines for their age too. No one is safe until everyone is safe.”
Since March 2020, when the first case of COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed, this had an impact on all health programmes, including routine immunization. An estimated,186,000 children missed their first doses of the measles vaccine in 2020 and around half a million are missing out on polio vaccines, also due to limited access and insecurity.
However, the Government, WHO, UNICEF and partners are working to ensure health facilities and personnel use all precautions possible while delivering services.
“The devastating COVID-19 pandemic has reminded the world how important and effective vaccines are,” said Mohamed Ayoya, UNICEF Somalia Representative. “Vaccines protect us from life-threatening diseases and safeguard our future health. It is critical that we accelerate COVID-19 vaccinations and scale up routine immunization especially for children in hard to reach areas. Reaching and protecting these children is a priority.”
In last quarter of 2021, the Somali Federal Government, WHO and UNICEF and other partners have plans to introduce a second dose of inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) and measles vaccines as part of the routine immunization programme, now being extended to children older than one year of age. This will boost their immunity, particularly in the event they may have missed one dose of measles or polio vaccines when younger.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/126082-world-immunization-week-%E2%80%93-ministry-health-who-unicef-and-partners-commit-improve-vaccination




Date: 27 April 2021
Title: Statement on Outbreak of Violence in Mogadishu
Content: 27 April 2021
International partners* strongly condemn the outbreak of violence in Mogadishu on 25 April.
Mogadishu – International partners* strongly condemn the outbreak of violence in Mogadishu on 25 April.
 
We have repeatedly warned that the extension of mandates would lead to a political crisis and undermine peace, stability and security in Somalia.  In the wake of the violence on 25 April, we urge all sides to exercise maximum restraint, resume dialogue, and avoid unilateral actions that may lead to a further escalation. 
 
We are alarmed especially by the emerging fragmentation of the Somali National Army (SNA) along clan lines, which detracts from its primary task of combating Al Shabab and protecting the Somali population. Use of security forces for pursuit of political objectives is unacceptable. 
 
We reiterate that the 17 September agreement remains the only agreed model for elections and we urge the signatories of this agreement to return immediately to talks on that basis.
 
We welcome the decision of the African Union Peace and Security Council to appoint a Special Envoy and urge that this high-level representative arrives in Mogadishu and to begin work as soon as possible. We stand ready as partners to extend our support to this Envoy, and meanwhile we continue efforts to bring the parties together.  
 
We reaffirm our respect for Somali sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity, and independence.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/125769-statement-outbreak-violence-mogadishu




Date: 26 April 2021
Title: Statement Attributable to the Spokesperson of the Secretary-General – on Somalia
Content: 26 April 2021
New York - The Secretary-General is deeply concerned about the recent armed clashes in Mogadishu. He reiterates his call for all Somali stakeholders to refrain from further violence and resolve their differences through dialogue and compromise.
The Secretary-General urges all Somali stakeholders to resume negotiations immediately and forge an agreement based on the 17 September Electoral Model and Baidoa proposals. 
 
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/125765-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-somalia




Date: 25 April 2021
Title: Humanitarian leadership declares drought
Content: 25 April 2021
(Mogadishu, 25 April 2021) – Based on observed drought conditions and rainfall forecasts, the Federal Government of Somalia and the humanitarian community are deeply concerned about the deterioration of the dry conditions in Somalia which has now escalated to a drought situation.
More than 80 per cent of the country is experiencing moderate to severe drought conditions. Although the Gu rains started in some parts of the country, forecasts indicate below-average rainfall. Limited rainfall amounts are expected in May and June with larger parts of Somaliland, Puntland, central regions and Gedo region being the worst affected.
“Somalia experiences a cyclical pattern of drought every five to six years and the failure of the rains thus far spells disaster. At a time when communities are already struggling to cope with the recent water shortages in many parts of the country, the unprecedented impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and already dire humanitarian situation in the country, many lives are at stake,” said Minister of Humanitarian Affairs Khadija Diriye.
Somalia is on the front line of climate change and the frequency of climate-related disasters is increasing rapidly. Since 1990, Somalia has experienced more than 30 climate-related hazards, including 12 droughts and 19 floods – triple the number of climate-related hazards experienced between 1970 and 1990. In 2021, drought conditions are expected to increase displacement and have a lasting negative impact on livelihoods and food security outcomes. At least 3.4 million people are projected to be affected by drought conditions by the end of 2021, of whom around 380,000 are expected to be displaced.
The loss of livelihoods forces families to rely on increasingly severe coping mechanisms, worsened by political instability, armed conflict and forced displacement.
“We are at the brink of a human catastrophe amidst an already dire humanitarian situation,” said the Humanitarian Coordinator, Adam Abdelmoula. “The cost of inaction is far too dire and the time to take action is now. Urgent and immediate collective action, including scaling-up of response and funding, is needed now to mitigate a full-scale disaster.”
The Somalia Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) requires US$ 1.09 billion to assist four million people, including more than three million people in acute need. As of today, the HRP is 15 per cent funded.
For further information, please contact:
Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs & Disaster Management Ahmed Omar, Head of Communications, communications@mohadm.gov.so, +252 615578678
UNOCHA Somalia, Delphine Vakunta, Communications Officer-in-Charge, vakunta@un.org +252 61 8852275
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/125660-humanitarian-leadership-declares-drought




Date: 23 April 2021
Title: Security Council Press Statement On Somalia
Content: 23 April 2021
New York - The members of the Security Council expressed their deep concern about the continued political impasse and disagreement among Somalia’s political leaders on the model for elections.
The members of the Security Council recalled the significant progress made during the past decade in Somalia, including in terms of security provision, democracy, political reforms and economic development, in particular debt relief. They commended the Somali people, the Somali authorities, the African Union, the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) and its troop contributing countries, the United Nations and Somalia’s other international partners for their role in this endeavour.
The members of the Security Council emphasised that ongoing disagreement over the electoral model is not only undoing this hard-earned progress but is also diverting attention from pressing problems such as floods, drought, desert locusts, the COVID-19 pandemic, and combatting the terrorist threat of Al-Shabaab. They stressed that reaching consensus on elections would support and facilitate the continued development and progress of Somalia and its people.
The members of the Security Council underscored that consensus would be vital for any electoral model to be successfully delivered. They noted the 17 September agreement has remained the only basis so far endorsed by the Federal Government of Somalia and all Federal Member States.
The members of the Security Council therefore called on all parties to reject violence and resume dialogue as a matter of urgency and without precondition. They called on Somalia’s leaders to recognise and build upon the many areas of agreement already reached, to resolve their remaining differences and to put the interests of the people of Somalia first, within a Somali-owned, Somali-led electoral process, and with an agreed timetable, as soon as possible. They reiterated that, through the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM) and in conjunction with AMISOM, the African Union (AU), European Union, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and international partners, they stand ready to assist.
The members of the Security Council took note of President Farmaajo’s talks with the Democratic Republic of Congo President and Chairperson of the AU, Felix Tshisekedi in Kinshasa on 19 April. They expressed their support for and encouraged regionally-led international efforts to help bring the parties back to the table and facilitate inclusive negotiations.
The members of the Security Council took note of the IGAD statement of 21 April and the AU Peace and Security Council communique of 22 April. They expressed their support for the Special Representative of the Secretary General, James Swan, and for AU and IGAD efforts to help resolve the current impasse.
The members of the Security Council condemned all terrorist attacks in Somalia and the region and reaffirmed their respect for the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and unity of Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/125650-security-council-press-statement-somalia




Date: 14 April 2021
Title: Statement on Resolution Adopted by the Somali House of the People
Content: 14 April 2021
Mogadishu – The African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Canada, Denmark, European Union (EU), Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations are deeply concerned by passage on 12 April in the House of the People of a resolution to replace the 17 September agreement with an electoral process that will result in a lengthy extension to the mandates of the President and Parliament.
We have repeatedly stated that a parallel political process, partial elections, or new initiatives leading to an extension of prior mandates will not be supported.
The 12 April resolution undermines peace, security, and stability in Somalia and beyond.  This resolution will also further delay holding the credible elections awaited by the Somali people.
We are convinced that implementation of the 17 September agreement remains the best available course of action and so urge Federal Government and Federal Member State leaders to return urgently to talks to agree on a way forward.  We call on all parties to exercise maximum restraint, continue dialogue, and avoid unilateral actions that may inflame tensions.
We stand ready to provide good offices to facilitate and revitalize inclusive dialogue on the basis of the 17 September agreement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/124814-statement-resolution-adopted-somali-house-people




Date: 13 April 2021
Title: The United Nations in Somalia extends warm wishes to all Somalis as Ramadan begins
Content: 13 April 2021
Mogadishu – The Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Somalia, James Swan, extends his warm wishes to all Somalis as the Holy Month of Ramadan begins.
“On behalf of the entire United Nations family in Somalia, please accept my warm wishes for a peaceful month of worship, compassion and caring for others,” said Mr. Swan.
“This year’s Ramadan is observed as Somalis reconnect with the perpetual values of harmony,  tolerance, forgiveness and reconciliation, which we hope will also guide Somali leaders. May this special time of reflection bring you joy and unity! Ramadan kareem! Soon wanaagsan!”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/124557-united-nations-somalia-extends-warm-wishes-all-somalis-ramadan-begins




Date: 11 April 2021
Title: Humanitarian leadership calls for urgent action to mitigate impact of worsening drought in Somalia
Content: 11 April 2021
(Mogadishu, 11 April 2021) – The Federal Government of Somalia and the humanitarian community are deeply concerned about the worsening drought conditions in Somalia.
Most parts of the country are facing critical water shortages, with more than 50 districts facing moderate to severe drought conditions. The situation is particularly concerning as forecasts indicate a second consecutive season of below-average rainfall during the April to June Gu season. Current forecasts indicate little to no rainfall for most parts of Somalia through the third week of April. Over 116,000 Somalis have already been displaced by extreme water shortages since October 2020. With worsening drought conditions and limited response, high levels of population displacement are expected in the coming weeks and months.
“Compounding the effects of the various crises in this country, support to people in Somalia this year is needed now more than ever before. I am appealing to donors to give generously and to give now, to fund a rapid drought mitigation response,” said the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, H.E. Khadija Diriye. “We are facing widespread food insecurity, malnutrition, population displacement and disease. We need funding now to save lives, alleviate suffering and get assistance out before the situation becomes a complete catastrophe.”
The drought conditions add an additional layer of complexity to already unprecedented needs, driving communities to use unsafe coping mechanisms, at a time when communities are already struggling with the impact of COVID-19, continued desert locust infestation, armed conflict, political instability and widespread food insecurity. The cumulative impact is dire, with the cost of water skyrocketing by 54% in some areas, further exacerbating the vulnerability of women and children who now must walk further distances to collect water.
“I am deeply concerned that we are facing increasing needs with diminishing resources. We can mitigate the impact of drought, but urgent and immediate action is needed now as experience has taught us from the response to the 2016/17 severe drought,” said the Humanitarian Coordinator, Adam Abdelmoula. “The Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) is currently only 4.1 per cent funded. While humanitarians will do everything possible to address the impact of drought, immediate funding to the HRP and sustainable resilience building solutions are needed to manage the cyclical climatic vulnerabilities in the longer term.”
For further information, please contact:
Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management Ahmed Omar, Director of Communications and Public Information, communications@mohadm.gov.so, +252 615578678
Hassan Anshur, Head of National Humanitarian Coordination Centre, nhcc@mohadm.gov.so, +252 617876850
UNOCHA Somalia, Delphine Vakunta, Communications Officer-in-Charge, vakunta@un.org +252 61 8852275
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/124450-humanitarian-leadership-calls-urgent-action-mitigate-impact-worsening-drought-somalia




Date: 10 April 2021
Title: Joint Communique on the Situation in Somalia (AU, EU, IGAD and UN)
Content: 10 April 2021
The African Union (AU), the European Union (EU); Inter- Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and the United Nations (UN) are highly concerned by the situation in Somalia. In this regard, a virtual meeting was held on 9th April 2021, with participation of Dr. Workneh Gebeyehu, Executive Secretary of IGAD; H.E. Amb. Bankole Adeoye, AU Commissioner for Political Affairs, Peace and Security; H.E. Amb. Rita Laranjinha, European Union, Managing Director for Africa; and H.E. Rosemary DiCarlo, United Nations Undersecretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs.


a) Reiterate their respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and unity of Somalia; and call upon Somali leaders to prioritize the national interest of Somalia and immediately return to dialogue to seek compromise on the outstanding issues, and to ensure that no actions are taken that would undermine the stability of Somalia, which is critical to the maintenance of international peace and security;
b) Underscore that the 17 September Agreement remains the most viable path towards the holding of elections in the shortest delay possible, and urge the Federal Government and the Federal Member State leaders to review and validate the 16 February 2021 Baidoa Technical Committee recommendations and seek agreement through compromise on any outstanding issues necessary for rapid electoral implementation;
c) Appreciate the efforts of International Partners in facilitating communication between among Somali leaders; and call upon the Partners to strengthen these good offices engagements and identify if needed new ways in support of a return to dialogue among the political stakeholders;
d) Reaffirm decision not to support any parallel process, partial elections, or new initiatives leading to any extension of prior mandates;
e) Express serious concern that the political stalemate is impacting negatively on peace, security, stability, and prosperity in Somalia and beyond;
f) Call upon Somali political leaders to continue the progress made in state-building and inclusive politics, especially elections and peaceful transition of power, and appeal to these leaders to deliver today on the vital interests of the Somali people for peaceful, free, fair, and credible elections;
g) Urge all Somali leaders to exercise maximum restraint and refrain from any actions that may lead to an escalation of tensions.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/124453-joint-communique-situation-somalia-au-eu-igad-and-un




Date: 08 April 2021
Title: International Partners Urge that Talks Continue
Content: 08 April 2021
Mogadishu – International partners* are alarmed by public statements made by some officials yesterday suggesting that the closed-door, consultative, ice-breaking meeting of Federal Government and Federal Member State leaders is not making progress. We stress that these talks are central to ensuring implementation of the 17 September electoral model for credible elections, without which the progress of recent years in Somalia’s stability, economic development and institutional reforms will be at risk.   
 
We urge the leaders to return to the talks immediately to reach agreement, through compromise, on remaining issues. We reiterate that partners will not support a parallel process, partial elections, or new initiatives leading to an extension of prior mandates. We urge all Somali leaders to exercise maximum restraint and refrain from any unilateral actions that may cause an escalation of political tensions.
 
In view of the gravity of the current situation, partners are undertaking urgent consultations with the FGS-FMS meeting participants and other key Somali stakeholders to identify options for quick resolution of this impasse and a rapid return to dialogue.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/124314-international-partners-urge-talks-continue




Date: 06 April 2021
Title: International Partners Appeal to Somali Leaders to Reach Agreement
Content: 06 April 2021
Mogadishu – As Somalis prepare to welcome the Holy Month of Ramadan, international partners* express hope that the basic tenets of reflection, tolerance, forgiveness and reconciliation will usher in a successful summit of the Federal Government and Federal Member State leaders.
Noting the importance of the planned FGS-FMS summit, international partners urge that this Somali-led and Somali-owned dialogue lead to the resolution of all outstanding issues and permit implementation of the 17 September electoral process. Such an agreement, symbolising unity, compassion, and care for others, would demonstrate leadership and concern for the Somali nation and offer a special Ramadan gift to the people of Somalia
We urge FGS and FMS leaders to use this opportunity to resolve their differences and make the necessary compromises in order to ensure that credible, timely, and peaceful elections can be held without further delay to allow Somalia to move forward.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Djibouti, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Russia, Qatar, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/124106-international-partners-appeal-somali-leaders-reach-agreement




Date: 04 April 2021
Title: UN Highlights Need for Perseverance and Collaboration on Mine Action Day
Content: 04 April 2021
Mogadishu – Marking the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, the United Nations in Somalia highlighted this year’s theme of ‘Perseverance, Partnership, Progress’ in working to eliminate the threat of explosive hazards to Somalis.
“While the country is improving in preventing explosive hazards, we must continue to work together to rid Somalia of this scourge which not only kills and injures so many innocent civilians each year, but also puts a brake on the country’s development,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
In 2019, there were 1,140 civilian casualties due to Improvised Explosive Devices (IED). In 2020, that number dropped to 454. Also, in 2019, there were 59 civilian casualties due to Explosive Remnants of War (ERW) and that number dropped to 53 in 2020.
While there has been a welcome decline in the number of casualties, they are still a major concern which requires our dedicated attention, according to the UN Mine Action Service (UNMAS) in Somalia.
“The major impact of explosive hazards is on civilians and, particularly, on children. Together, we must press on to reinforce the development of national mine-action capacities and continue to support Somalia, ensuring protection of civilians as well as social and economic development,” said UNMAS’ Programme Director in Somalia, Qurat-ul-Ain Sadozai.
UNMAS is working with the Federal Government of Somalia and Federal Member States, along with national and international partners, to support the Somalia Transition Plan. This includes clearing explosive hazards, delivering explosive ordnance risk education, raising awareness at the community level, enhancing national mine action capabilities, and supporting government efforts to serve survivors of landmines and explosive remnants of war and persons with disabilities.
UNMAS’ efforts advance the UN’s collective commitment to support the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Adopted by all UN member States in 2015, the Goals are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and improve the lives and prospects of everyone everywhere.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/123860-un-highlights-need-perseverance-and-collaboration-mine-action-day




Date: 04 April 2021
Title: UN Highlights Need for Perseverance and Collaboration on Mine Action Day  Mogadishu – Marking the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, the United Nations in Somalia highlighted this year’s theme of ‘Perseverance, Partnershi
Content: 04 April 2021
Mogadishu – The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia, James Swan, condemned yesterday’s attacks against the Somali National Army bases in Barire and Awdhegle towns in Lower Shabelle region.
“We strongly condemn these attacks that targeted Somali forces. This is a vivid reminder of the sacrifices being made by Somali soldiers every day as they fight bravely to keep Somalia and its people safe,” said  Mr. Swan. “We extend our condolences for the loss of life, and wish a speedy recovery to the injured.”
Al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the attacks, and has reportedly sustained heavy losses in the face of strong action by the Somali National Army.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/123859-un-highlights-need-perseverance-and-collaboration-mine-action-day-mogadishu-%E2%80%93-marking




Date: 23 March 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Somalia
Content: 23 March 2021
New York - The Secretary-General reiterates his deep concern at the continued political impasse regarding the holding of elections in Somalia, despite several rounds of consultations amongst Somali political actors, both at technical and principal levels. The protracted stalemate carries significant risks for the stability of the country and the welfare of the Somali people, who are already facing a dire humanitarian situation and precarious security conditions.
The Secretary-General urges the Federal Government of Somalia and all Federal Member State leaders to engage in dialogue and hold the planned summit urgently and without preconditions to resolve their differences on the electoral process and reach consensus on the way forward. He welcomes the commitment of Somali leaders to the 17 September electoral model, and calls on them to agree quickly on its swift implementation and the holding of elections without further delay.
The Secretary-General reiterates the commitment of the United Nations to support Somalia towards​ peace, stability and prosperity.
Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesman for the Secretary-General
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/123124-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-somalia




Date: 22 March 2021
Title: World Water Day 2021 - Statement by Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General and UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia
Content: 22 March 2021
Mogadishu, 22 March 2021 - On the occasion of World Water Day, I wish to call for urgent action to prevent a catastrophe in Somalia. Drought is looming in the country and at least 3.4 million people are projected to be affected this year. Already, over 83,300 Somalis have been displaced by water shortages and dry conditions in the last four months.
Extreme dry conditions and water scarcity are reported in 34 districts; the worst affected areas being Somaliland, Puntland, Galmudug, Hirshabelle and Jubaland. The unfolding water crisis in Somalia is a stark reminder that we urgently need long-term sustainable development solutions to complement humanitarian action and address the root causes of recurrent climatic shocks in Somalia.
Over the last 10 years, access to and use of safe drinking water and sanitation has significantly improved in Somalia. Over half of the Somali population had basic access to safe drinking water in 2019, compared to 20 per cent in 2010. Despite this progress, much more remains to be done.
Somalia did not achieve the Millennium Development Goals on water and is behind on its progress on the Sustainable Development Goals. About 23 per cent of rural Somalis drink unimproved or unprotected water and five per cent drink purely surface water. Somalia is the only country in the world with a gap exceeding 50 points between urban and rural use of water services. The situation is particularly challenging for women and children, particularly girls. Scarcity increases the care burden required to collect water, as well as risk of abuse and gender-based violence.
In 2021, we expect water scarcity to escalate the risk of communicable disease outbreaks such as acute watery diarrhoea, increase the vulnerability of already at-risk populations and aggravate food insecurity. Without sustained humanitarian assistance, an estimated 2.65 million Somalis are expected to face crisis or worse levels of food insecurity through June due to forecasted below-average rainfall.
Water challenges in Somalia oscillate between water shortages and drought-like conditions, and flash floods and river breakages. We need to bolster efforts to provide communities access to sustainable and climate-resilient water services. This means investing in short, medium and long-term solutions that withstand climate shocks, operate using low carbon energy sources, and strengthen resilience and adaptive capacities.
I call on Somalia’s authorities, with support of partners and donors, to lead on instituting solutions around sustainable water management to break the cyclical pattern of water crises in the country. Furthermore, I urge donors to ensure adequate funding for immediate life-saving water and sanitation interventions.
Ends.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/123588-world-water-day-2021-statement-mr-adam-abdelmoula-deputy-special-representative-secretary




Date: 21 March 2021
Title: International Partners Call for Somali Leaders to Reach Agreement
Content: 21 March 2021
Mogadishu – International partners* welcome the arrival of participants for the summit of the Federal Government of Somalia and Federal Member State leaders, to be held in the protected area of Mogadishu’s Aden Adde International Airport, and announced to begin on 22 March 2021. We urge them to convene quickly and to show leadership by building on the Baidoa Technical Committee proposals of 16 February 2021 to implement the 17 September 2020 electoral model and proceed to elections without delay.
We also encourage consultation with other stakeholders such as political actors, civil society organizations, and key legislators to listen to their views and ensure broad support for the electoral process.
We see no viable alternative to implementation of the 17 September electoral model on a rapid timeline to conduct peaceful, inclusive, free, fair, and credible elections.  International partners will not support a partial or parallel electoral process or any initiatives leading to extension of prior mandates.
We appeal to Somalia’s leaders to seize this opportunity for a peaceful political settlement leading to elections and to make the necessary compromises in the interest of the Somali nation and its people.
International partners continue their efforts to bring the Somali stakeholders together.  We reiterate our commitment to support implementation of the electoral process once details are agreed.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Qatar, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/122770-international-partners-call-somali-leaders-reach-agreement




Date: 15 March 2021
Title: 300,000 doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine for frontline workers and the most vulnerable
Content: 15 March 2021
Mogadishu, 15 March 2021 – Overall, Somalia has secured enough vaccines from the COVAX Facility to vaccinate at least 20 per cent of its population, in phases. The COVAX Facility seeks to accelerate the development and manufacturing of COVID-19 vaccines, and to guarantee fair and equitable access for every country in the world. The Government of Somalia is also in the process of assessing ways to provide vaccines for more people.
“The arrival of the COVID-19 vaccines happens at a critical time as Somalia is now experiencing a new wave of the epidemic. It can only be contained if all countries stand together, Somalia included. I call on all healthcare workers and people at high risk who have been prioritized to receive vaccines from this first batch so we can protect our health workforce, other frontline workers and high-risk people,” said Somalia’s Federal Minister of Health, H.E. Dr. Fawziya Abikar Nur.
Somalia has recorded 8,946 confirmed COVID-19 cases, including 349 deaths, since March 2020. From 1 to 22 February 2021, a total of 1,432 new cases and 76 deaths were reported in Mogadishu alone. This has been the largest increase in a week since May-June of 2020 when the epidemic peaked at between 500-600 cases a week.
“The United Nations in Somalia stands ready to support the Somali authorities for the COVAX vaccine roll-out. We are committed to support the government of Somalia to reach out to the most vulnerable groups and frontline workers to ensure that spread of the virus is contained, and that Somali people recover quickly from this pandemic and the country continues making progress towards peace and stability,” said the United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
The vaccine, which has been validated by WHO for emergency use and is licensed to the Serum Institute of India, only requires standard refrigeration which makes it easier to transport and store.
The Ministry of Health will build on its extensive, long experience in conducting mass vaccination drives, educate the public in order to gain their support and raise awareness about the value and effectiveness of the vaccine, and utilize existing cold chain supply systems to distribute the vaccines.
History has demonstrated that vaccines are the most cost-effective public health tools available to humanity. Vaccines work and can even eradicate communicable diseases.
“We have strong systems in place to carry out immunization campaigns and enable the safe delivery of the COVID-19 vaccines to frontline workers. This first roll-out of the vaccination will be a landmark step in Somalia’s fight against COVID-19,” said H.E. Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur, the Minister of Health.
“The vaccines have helped other countries reduce the spread of COVID-19, and we are confident they will do the same for Somalis. However, we must emphasize the need to continue other public health prevention measures such as wearing face masks, hand washing, social distancing, expanding the testing capacity across the country, strengthening contact tracing through effective surveillance and the isolation of people who present COVID-19 symptoms - at home, when these are mild and moderate, and in hospitals when needed,” the Minister added.
To create awareness among families on the importance of being vaccinated against the virus, social mobilizers will be deployed to communities to encourage use of the COVID-19 vaccine. They will also reinforce the importance of continuing COVID-19 prevention measures, including washing hands frequently, wearing face masks and observing physical distancing.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/116319-300000-doses-oxford-astrazeneca-vaccine-frontline-workers-and-most-vulnerable




Date: 09 March 2021
Title: IOM Somalia Relocates Nearly 7,000 Internally Displaced Persons Facing Eviction
Content: 09 March 2021
Baidoa – Nearly 7,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) who were facing eviction from their homes in Somalia were relocated on Sunday by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to Barwaaqo, a new site for IDPs, in the South West State.
The IDPs were living on private land across 17 informal settlements in Baidoa city. They will join another 6,116 individuals who moved to Barwaaqo previously in 2019, in coordination with the South West State Government.
There are currently an estimated 2.6 million IDPs across Somalia. Nearly 360,000 displaced people live in 500 locations in Baidoa, most of them on private land. Tenants have no rights over the land or security to stay there. Even though they have built homes and lived there for years, they are at constant risk of eviction.
Habiba Mohamed, a 39-year-old mother of seven, knows all too well what it is like to be evicted. Since fleeing her native village, she had twice been evicted from spots where she hoped to offer her family safety and stability. She just arrived at the new location this week and is convinced it will finally bring stability to her life.
“I would like to stay here (in Baidoa) because we have access to land, education and better services for all of us including my children,” Habiba said.
“I remember one day we built a concrete toilet in the camp we were living in. That same afternoon the landowner told us to vacate the place the next morning”, explained another IDP, Halima Ibrahima.
Her new home, Barwaaqo, means “prosperity’’ in Somali. The new residents are among the 13,000 people benefiting from the project launched by IOM with local partners.
The site lies just outside Baidoa, on land donated by the local government to provide displaced communities with long-term accommodation security. The alternative—occupying a spot wherever it can be found—means running the risk of being accused of squatting on private land and facing renewed displacement.
IOM joined the Danwadaag Durable Solutions Consortium overseeing the construction of Barwaaqo’s roads, water supply systems, streetlights and other infrastructure. Other partners brought in a school, two police stations, a primary health care clinic, a nutrition centre and a community centre.
Relocated families receive cash assistance and a plot of land on which to build new shelters. Each has access to a garden plot to plant and harvest food. Residents will receive title deeds two years after resettlement, which reduces the threat of relocated families moving again and risking further evictions.
“The problems that forced them to flee their places of origin are still there, and the majority of the IDPs don’t have any plans to return,” explained Mohamed Abdelazim, IOM Somalia's Head of Operations and Emergencies. “Persistent drought, flooding and conflict continue to drive displacement within Somalia and many people crowd into cities and towns in search of basic services.”
The Barwaaqo relocation is part of a wider effort from IOM and the government to provide long-term solutions to displaced populations in the country. It also sets an example of how to successfully implement the Humanitarian-Peace-Development-Nexus (HPDN), which IOM intends to replicate elsewhere, both in Somalia and globally.
The second phase of the Baidoa relocation project was funded by The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) and the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO). Other donors that have contributed to the project are USAID and the Government of Japan.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/123705-iom-somalia-relocates-nearly-7000-internally-displaced-persons-facing-eviction




Date: 09 March 2021
Title: UN Envoy to Somalia Condemns the Mortar Attack on the Aden Adde International Airport Area
Content: 09 March 2021
Mogadishu – The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia, James Swan, condemned today’s attack in which six mortar rounds landed within the perimeter of the Aden Adde International Airport in Mogadishu.
Al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the attack. No United Nations facilities were affected and no United Nations personnel were casualties of the mortars.
“I condemn this Al-Shabaab mortar attack on the airport facility in Mogadishu,” said Mr. Swan. “We wish a speedy recovery to those injured elsewhere at the airport. Despite such acts of violence, Somalia’s international partners remain committed to stand by the people of Somalia, and continue supporting the advancement of the country.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/115457-un-envoy-somalia-condemns-mortar-attack-aden-adde-international-airport-area




Date: 08 March 2021
Title: On International Women's Day, the UN Calls for Somali Women’s Enhanced Political Participation and Applauds Somali Women on the Frontlines to Defeat the Pandemic
Content: 08 March 2021
Mogadishu – On the occasion of International Women’s Day, the United Nations in Somalia commends Somali women for their immense contributions to peace and development in the country and calls for decisive action by Somali leaders to ensure gender equality and full participation of women in all spheres of life.
“Throughout the years, Somali women have played an extraordinary role in reconciliation, peacebuilding, and development,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan. “In my conversations with Somalis, they often tell me that women are the backbone of the Somali society. It is time for this to be recognized and translated into concrete actions and opportunities for Somali women to participate in political decision-making and enhance their leadership abilities.”
The theme of this year’s International Women’s Day is ‘Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world’. As Somalia experiences a new wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the United Nations in Somalia acknowledges the tremendous efforts of Somali women who joined the national response efforts to keep families and communities safe.
“While applauding women’s resilience, we should also remember that in Somalia and elsewhere in the world, the pandemic affects women and girls disproportionately, as they face increased economic uncertainty, violence, and insecurity. More needs to be done in terms of prevention but also to ensure there are adequate services available for victims and survivors,” said Mr. Swan.
Ahead of Somalia’s upcoming elections, the United Nations in Somalia urges all Somali stakeholders to honour the commitment made to implement the agreed 30 per cent women’s quota when electing the representation for the Upper House and 11th Parliament.
International Women’s Day has been observed around the world since 1975, to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The day marks a call to action for accelerating gender equality.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/115237-international-womens-day-un-calls-somali-women%E2%80%99s-enhanced-political-participation-and




Date: 07 March 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General – on Somalia
Content: 07 March 2021

New York  -- The Secretary-General strongly condemns the deadly terrorist attack that took place in Mogadishu yesterday. He extends his profound condolences to the families of the victims and wishes a swift recovery to those injured. He calls for the perpetrators of this attack to be brought to justice.
The Secretary-General reiterates the full support and solidarity of the United Nations with the Government and people of Somalia in the face of such crimes.  He is convinced that indiscriminate violence and attacks will not deter the Somali people in their pursuit of peace, stability and prosperity.
Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General
New York, 6 March 2021
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/115166-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-%E2%80%93-somalia




Date: 03 March 2021
Title: Next-generation Regional Collaborative Platform meeting kicks off for first time with regional UN entities in Africa   3 March 2021
Content: 03 March 2021
BRAZZAVILLE – Africa’s regional know-how, assets and policy expertise will be more systematically channeled to the Resident Coordinators and United Nations Country Teams (UNCTs) across the continent as they help countries ensure an inclusive and sustainable transition out of the COVID-19 crisis, UN Deputy Secretary-General and Chair of the UN Sustainable Development Group Amina J. Mohammed stressed as she joined the first annual meeting of the new Regional Collaborative Platform on 2 March 2021.
“Today marks the start of the next-generation collaboration approach for the regional UN entities to support African countries to respond and recover better from the COVID-19 pandemic and reignite the Decade of Action for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is aligned with the Africa Union Agenda 2063,” Ms. Mohammed said.
The United Nations has been making progress on its sweeping reforms to strengthen its support to countries, leveraging its capacities at all levels. The new Regional Collaborative Platform has responded to the growing need for enhanced UN coordination and regional collaboration in the face of the pandemic and implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. It brings together UN regional expertise, capacity and data to provide analytical, policy and operational support to countries.
Yesterday’s discussion, attended by regional representatives from the Africa UN development system, focused on high-priority issues for the African continent to recover better from the pandemic and move toward the Sustainable Development Goals. These included accelerating the implementation of the continental free trade agreement; investing in youth and women’s empowerment to help countries reap the benefit of their demographic dividends; advancing home-grown sustainable and scalable technologies and digital solutions; building climate and disaster resilience; and continuing to support the African Union’s “Silencing the Guns” initiative.
Across the continent, Resident Coordinators and UNCTs are supporting countries in their access to COVAX vaccines and their socioeconomic response plans. In addition to the pandemic recovery, UN entities will work together to support sustainable development efforts in the Sahel, the Lake Chad Basin and the Horn of Africa, and address the resurgence of Ebola, and climate crises with severe damage caused by deadly droughts, cyclones and locust outbreaks.
“We are still in a recovery phase for the continent. We need additional resources. Our low- and middle-income countries, as well as small island states, have lost a lot of their resources. They need more fiscal space. They need more revenues. They need additional liquidity to ensure we build forward better,” said Under-Secretary-General Vera Songwe, Executive Secretary of the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA).
Although it was a transitional year, the regional UN entities demonstrated evidence of enhanced system-wide collaboration at the regional level. For example, last year, all of them joined forces to launch the Knowledge Management Hub on COVID-19 and shared a business continuity plan with governments to support their e-governance, e-justice and e-commerce for livelihoods, while the Africa e-education strategy was introduced to Resident Coordinators to provide emergency education to more than 100 million African children out of school.
“The African region is at a strategic juncture with COVID-19 recovery programmes and investments that we are making to enhance trade. All our efforts will yield desired results only if Africa’s people – our most important resource – feel productive, if they feel valued, if they feel safe, and if they feel secure,” said Assistant Secretary-General Ahunna Eziakonwa, Director of the Regional Bureau for Africa at the UN Development Programme (UNDP).
The new platform will engage with the African Union in April and accelerate its effort to deliver on its promise with an impact-oriented focus on implementations.
The Regional Collaborative Platform is chaired by the UN Deputy Secretary-General with two Vice-Chairs: Ms. Songwe and Ms. Eziakonwa. Its joint secretariat is comprised of UNECA, UNDP and the UN Development Coordination Office (DCO).
###

Notes for correspondents
Agenda 2063 is Africa’s blueprint and master plan for transforming Africa into the global powerhouse of the future. It is the continent’s strategic framework that aims to deliver on its goal for inclusive and sustainable development.
The UN Resident Coordinator system encompasses all organizations of the United Nations system dealing with operational activities for development, regardless of their formal presence in the country.

Screenshots of the meeting can be downloaded here (©UNDCO).

Media contacts

Hiroyuki Saito, Regional Communications Officer
Regional Office for Africa, UN Development Coordination Office
saitoh@un.org

Maleele Choongo
Regional Bureau for Africa, UN Development Programme
Maleele.choongo@undp.org

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/114484-next-generation-regional-collaborative-platform-meeting-kicks-first-time-regional-un




Date: 03 March 2021
Title: UNHCR donates large tents and personal protective equipment to combat the rise of COVID19 cases in Somalia
Content: 03 March 2021
Mogadishu, 3 March 2021 UNHCR donates large tents and personal protective equipment to combat the rise of COVID19 cases in Somalia UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, has donated medical items in the form of large tents and personal protective equipment (PPE) to the Federal Government’s Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Somalia. The latest donation, consisting of three large isolation/treatment medical tents, 50,000 face shields and 10,000 pairs of gloves, is part of UNHCR’s ongoing efforts to support the government of Somalia in curbing the spread of COVID-19.
UNHCR’s response to the pandemic since last year has included availing more than forty large isolation and/or treatment medical tents and containers to the government, awareness raising campaigns and messaging that has reached well over one million individuals with life-savings information, capacity building of health facilities with medical materials, install ing nearly one hundred hand-washing stations and/or boreholes, distributing PPEs and hygiene/sanitary kits to tens of thousands of individuals and more.
“The United Nations and International Community are working hard alongside the Government for the urgent roll-out of vaccinations under COVAX and similar health initiatives. Somalia’s latest wave of COVID-19 reignites the emergency that started one year ago, and underscores the need for humanitarian actors to support the Government and the people of Somalia to restrain the spread of this very contagious virus through prevention and treatment measures,” said UNHCR Representative Johann Siffointe.
In the course of receiving the donation, the Minister for Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, Khadija Mohamed Diriye, commended UNHCR for its timely support to the Federal Government during a trying and difficult time in Somalia. According to figures from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Federal Government, Somalia had recorded 7,392 laboratory-confirmed cases and 243 deaths since the onset of the pandemic. Although these figures are lower than global averages, the country has witnessed an unprecedented surge of cases over the last weeks. On 28 February, Somalia recorded its highest daily rate with 266 new confirmed cases and eight deaths.


UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/114498-unhcr-donates-large-tents-and-personal-protective-equipment-combat-rise-covid19-cases




Date: 02 March 2021
Title: Joint Statement on Further Dialogue among Political Leaders
Content: 02 March 2021
Mogadishu – International partners* welcome the continuation of talks on 1 March between Federal Government of Somalia Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble and the Council of Presidential Candidates.  After the successful meeting on 25 February, the partners appeal to the Prime Minister and the Council of Presidential Candidates to make further progress.
We also urge FGS and FMS leaders to hold the planned summit in the coming few days to confirm implementation plans for the 17 September agreement and conclude the review of the 16 February Technical Committee proposals so that the electoral process can begin without further delay.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/114308-joint-statement-further-dialogue-among-political-leaders




Date: 02 March 2021
Title: New UN Deputy Special Representative for Somalia arrives in Mogadishu
Content: 02 March 2021
Mogadishu, 2 March 2021 –  The new Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General (DSRSG), Ms. Anita Kiki Gbeho, arrived in Mogadishu today to assume her duties with the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM).
“I am honored by the opportunity to join the United Nations in Somalia, especially at this important time as the country prepares for the upcoming electoral process,” said Ms. Gbeho. “I am looking forward to engaging with the Somali people and their leaders, and all regional and international partners of Somalia, in working toward sustainable progress in the country.”
SRSG James Swan commented, “I am delighted to have Ms. Gbeho join our United Nations team, where she will play a leading role in UNSOM’s work in the political, electoral, human rights, rule of law, and security areas.”
Ms. Gbeho brings more than 25 years of experience in strategic planning, coordination and management in political, development and humanitarian affairs at United Nations Headquarters and in field operations in Angola, Cambodia, Iraq, Namibia, Somalia and Southern Sudan. Prior to UNSOM, Ms. Gbeho served as Deputy Joint Special Representative of the United Nations-African Union Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID).
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/114343-new-un-deputy-special-representative-somalia-arrives-mogadishu




Date: 23 February 2021
Title: Call for Continued Efforts to Reach FGS-FMS Agreement on Electoral Implementation
Content: 23 February 2021
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* call on all signatories of the 17 September agreement to come together urgently to finalize implementation of the electoral model, building on the work of the Technical Committee which met in Baidoa on 15-16 February.
Federal and Member State leaders should also maintain open lines of communication with other Somali political leaders and civil society to ensure the elections have the broadest possible support and electoral bodies act with independence from political interests.
International partners are concerned over the violent events which occurred in Mogadishu on 19 February. We call on all parties to maintain calm and exercise restraint to allow political dialogue to advance.
It is now more urgent than ever for Somalia’s political leaders to place the national interest first, and work together to hold elections that are broadly supported as soon as possible to move the country forward. International partners are actively supporting Somalis to achieve this outcome.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, League of Arab States (LAS), Norway, Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/113269-call-continued-efforts-reach-fgs-fms-agreement-electoral-implementation




Date: 20 February 2021
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General on Somalia
Content: 20 February 2021
New York – The Secretary-General is gravely concerned by the outbreak of violence in Mogadishu and calls on all parties to exercise restraint and calm. 
 
The Secretary-General urges the Federal Government of Somalia and Federal Member States leaders to urgently come together and finalize political agreement on the way forward for national elections, in line with the 17 September electoral model. 
 
The Secretary-General also calls for the full respect of the rights to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression. 
 
He reiterates the full support of the United Nations to the people and Government of Somalia on their path towards peace, stability and prosperity.
Farhan Haq, Deputy Spokesperson for the Secretary-General 
New York, 19 February 2021
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/112822-statement-attributable-spokesperson-secretary-general-somalia




Date: 17 February 2021
Title: Somalia: Urgent scaling up of emergency response needed, as 2.65 million people are projected to be in acute hunger
Content: 17 February 2021
17 February 2021, Mogadishu - Over 2.6 million people in Somalia are expected to be in extreme food insecurity according to the latest joint technical assessment released by the Food Security and Nutrition Analysis Unit (FSNAU) of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWS NET). The report cites poor rainfall, flooding and desert locusts among the main contributing factors and warns that the situation could worsen through mid-2021 in the absence of large-scale and sustained humanitarian assistance.
FAO and the Government of Somalia have emphasized the urgency to increase support to sustain ongoing desert locust control and surveillance efforts, and to provide rapid emergency assistance over the coming months.
"Despite relative progress, there has been a new upsurge of desert locusts that has destroyed crops. We will continue working as a combined force to combat the threat of desert locusts and mitigate the potential of a more devastating outcome," said Said Hussein Iid, Somalia's Minister of Agriculture and Irrigation.
The report highlights that desert locusts will continue to pose a serious risk of damage to both pasture and crops countrywide through mid-2021. In addition, available forecasts indicate an increased likelihood of below-average rainfall during the 2021 Gu (April-June) season across most of the country, which would further exacerbate food and nutrition insecurity for millions of people.
"With the Government's support, our teams and partners have maintained operations in control and surveillance, while delivering crucial humanitarian assistance and livelihood support during extremely challenging circumstances. Expanding the emergency response is crucial and underway, with a focus on interventions aimed at reducing food consumption gaps, saving lives, and protecting and preserving livelihoods," said Etienne Peterschmitt, FAO Representative in Somalia.
From July to December 2020, assistance reached more than 1.8 million people per month on average in parts of Somalia. This large-scale humanitarian and government support helped to minimize the magnitude of the crisis and funding is needed urgently to boost efforts to reduce the new food security threats the country is currently facing.
Food insecurity expected to deteriorate
Approximately 1.6 million people face Crisis (IPC Phase 3) or worse outcomes in the presence of planned humanitarian assistance during the first quarter of 2021. An additional 2.5 million people are Stressed (IPC Phase 2), bringing the total number of people experiencing acute food insecurity to 4.1 million. This also includes approximately 840 000 children under the age of five who are likely to be acutely malnourished, including nearly 143 000 who are likely to be severely malnourished.
According to FSNAU-FEWS NET, from April to June 2021, food insecurity is expected to deteriorate, largely among poor rural, urban and displaced populations, due to the multitude of threats and crises. Humanitarian assistance must be sustained through mid-2021 to prevent Crisis (IPC Phase 3) or Emergency (IPC Phase 4) outcomes for nearly 2.7 million people.
"Somalia's long-standing crises are compounded now by the ‘triple threat' of the COVID-19 pandemic, desert locust infestations and climatic shocks," said the UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General Adam Abdelmoula, who also serves as the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia. "We must continue to work with all humanitarian partners to ensure the most vulnerable Somalis are able to withstand the challenges and build resilience against future shocks. I urge all partners to work together across the humanitarian, development and peacebuilding paths to address the root causes of these crises and build lasting solutions that leave no one behind," he added.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/114471-somalia-urgent-scaling-emergency-response-needed-265-million-people-are-projected-be-acute




Date: 13 February 2021
Title: Resumption of Dialogue on Implementation of 17 September Agreement
Content: 13 February 2021
Mogadishu – International partners* welcome the announcement that Federal Government of Somalia (FGS) and Federal Member State (FMS) leaders will meet on 15 February to finalise arrangements for implementing the 17 September election agreement, building on progress made during the recent Dhusamareb Forum.
International partners do not believe that the question of the location justifies any delay to this critically important summit. We urge the Federal Government and Federal Member State leaders, in a constructive spirit, to resolve the small number of issues outstanding from the Dhusamareb talks and agree to a short election timeline necessary to implement the 17 September Agreement.
We believe it is vital that the discussions initiated in Dhusamareb be brought quickly to a successful conclusion in this next round of dialogue. We encourage the FGS and FMS leaders attending the summit to engage in frequent communication and consultation with other Somali stakeholders to inform the deliberations.
Now is the time to avoid unilateral actions and proceed quickly to agree on the implementation of the 17 September electoral process to choose Somalia’s leaders.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Qatar, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/111834-resumption-dialogue-implementation-17-september-agreement




Date: 06 February 2021
Title: UNICEF and UNFPA call on the government of Somalia to commit to ending FGM by passing law prohibiting the practice
Content: 06 February 2021
Mogadishu, 6 February 2021 – Somalia has one of the highest rates of female genital mutilation (FGM) in the world. According to the latest Somali Health and Demographic Survey, 99 per cent of women between the ages of 15 and 49 have been subjected to this extremely harmful and unacceptable practice.
“FGM is a harmful practice that scars girls and women and endangers their health for life depriving them of their rights and denying them the chance to reach their full potential,” UNFPA Representative for Somalia Anders Thomsen said. “I would like to reiterate the call on the Government of Somalia to pass the zero tolerance for FGM legislation and the Sexual Offences Bill to act expeditiously to end the practice and protect the rights of girls and women.”
There are various forms of FGM practiced and two out of three Somali women have undergone the most extreme type of FGM called pharaonic or infibulation.
“Girls as young as five years old are subjected to FGM without a choice and it is a clear violation of their protection rights,” said Jesper Moller, UNICEF Deputy Representative in Somalia. “We must collectively renew our commitment to ending this harmful practice and work with all stakeholders to change attitudes so that the next generation of girls can live healthier lives.”
There are many reasons that FGM is almost universally practiced in Somalia including the fact that many religious and community leaders encourage the practice, wrongly justifying it as a religious necessity. Families also view cutting as a way of protecting their daughter’s chastity and that it is a prerequisite for marriage.
Through a variety of programmes, UNICEF and UNFPA are working with communities to change those attitudes and educate families on the life-threatening consequences of forcing young girls to undergo FGM.
However, alongside those efforts to change traditional beliefs, it is also critical that the Government of Somalia take action to eliminate this abhorrent practice.
Therefore, on International Day of Zero Tolerance for FGM, UNICEF and UNFPA call on the Government to revive efforts for passage of the FGM Bill which has been stuck in the legislative process for several years. Providing a legal framework which bans FGM will empower families and communities to stand firm and refuse to let their daughters be cut, putting an end to this gross violation of human rights.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/111835-unicef-and-unfpa-call-government-somalia-commit-ending-fgm-passing-law-prohibiting-practice




Date: 04 February 2021
Title: International Partners Welcome Meeting Underway in Dhusamareb
Content: 04 February 2021
Mogadishu – International partners* welcome the meeting among President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed Farmaajo and Federal Member State leaders now underway in Dhusamareb. It is crucial that all participants engage constructively to agree on the implementation of a national electoral process that respects the 17 September model.
We underscore that any alternative outcomes, including a parallel process or partial elections, or other measures short of an agreed electoral process, would be a setback that would not obtain the support of partners. We, therefore, call upon all political leaders to prioritise finding a way forward without further delay.
International partners again call on all of Somalia’s leaders to find consensus on electoral implementation as an urgent matter of national interest.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, League of Arab States (LAS), Netherlands, Norway, Qatar, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/110620-international-partners-welcome-meeting-underway-dhusamareb




Date: 01 February 2021
Title: United Nations in Somalia Condemns Attack on Mogadishu Hotel
Content: 01 February 2021
Mogadishu – The United Nations in Somalia strongly condemns the terrorist attack on Hotel Afrik which left many people dead or injured.
“We are appalled by this reprehensible and senseless attack on a venue frequented by innocent civilians, and condemn it in the strongest terms,” the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan, said.
According to reports, Al-Shabaab terrorists attacked the Hotel Afrik in Mogadishu on Sunday afternoon, and engaged in an hours-long siege before being dislodged by the Somali security forces.
The United Nations in Somalia expresses its condolences to the families of the victims, and wishes a speedy recovery to the injured
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/110064-united-nations-somalia-condemns-attack-mogadishu-hotel




Date: 31 January 2021
Title: International Partners Welcome Convening of Consultative Forum
Content: 31 January 2021
Mogadishu – International partners* welcome the 30 January announcement by H.E President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed that he will hold a consultative forum with Federal Member State leaders, to be held in Dhusamareb between 1 and 3 February.  We commend his leadership in convening this meeting.
We call on participants to engage actively and sincerely in this forum, to find solutions through fair compromise in the national interest, and to agree on implementation of the 17 September model for rapid delivery of elections throughout Somalia.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, League of Arab States, Netherlands, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Qatar, Russia, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/109982-international-partners-welcome-convening-consultative-forum




Date: 29 January 2021
Title: International Partners on the Elections
Content: 29 January 2021
International partners* welcome the nomination of State-level Electoral Implementation Teams for Jubaland and Puntland, presented on 27 January. While overdue, this positive step can help to create conditions for the rapid implementation of the 17 September electoral model in an inclusive and consensual manner.
Mogadishu – International partners* welcome the nomination of State-level Electoral Implementation Teams for Jubaland and Puntland, presented on 27 January. While overdue, this positive step can help to create conditions for the rapid implementation of the 17 September electoral model in an inclusive and consensual manner.
International partners fully endorse the proposal to urgently convene a meeting between the Federal Government and Federal Member State leaders, to resolve the remaining electoral implementation issues in order for credible and inclusive elections to proceed.
The partners call for a single agreed electoral process – without parallel or partial alternatives – that will be conducted peacefully with protection of political space and media freedom, guarantees the 30 per cent women’s quota, and results in a credible and inclusive outcome that serves the national interest.
Holding timely, credible elections is a vital element of the partnership between Somalia and the international community. International partners urge all Somali leaders to make fair compromises necessary to ensure credible elections.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/109814-international-partners-elections




Date: 12 January 2021
Title: International Partners Urge Resolution of Electoral Impasse
Content: 12 January 2021
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* are deeply concerned about the continuing impasse in implementing the electoral model agreed on 17 September by President Mohammed Abdullahi Farmajo and Federal Member State leaders.
We urge Somalia’s top political stakeholders to demonstrate leadership in the interest of the nation and to quickly resolve outstanding issues of implementation through dialogue and compromise, so that a credible electoral process can proceed as soon as possible.
The partners appreciate recent initiatives. In particular, they welcome the visit of Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble to Galmudug and Puntland; the discussions among a wide range of senior Somali leaders hosted in Garowe by Puntland President Said Deni; and the outreach by Galmudug President Ahmed Abdi Karie ‘Qor Qor,’ who conveyed proposals from Garowe to Federal Government of Somalia leaders and other political figures.
The partners note that the 17 September Agreement was endorsed by the Federal Government, all Federal Member States and both houses of Parliament, and was also welcomed by many Presidential aspirants. Notwithstanding the disappointment of the partners and many Somalis that this model falls far short of ‘one-person, one-vote’ elections, the 17 September Agreement remains the sole acceptable basis for the 2021 elections. There can be no re-opening of the 17 September Agreement or the creation of an alternative or parallel process.  Broadly inclusive understandings on its implementation are needed to ensure the credibility of this process. This would be in line with the agreed commitment from the Somali Partnership Forum. Partners would welcome an accelerated effort to resolve, as a matter of urgency, remaining issues and conclude such understandings in the coming days, so that elections could begin later this month.
The partners urge Somalia’s leaders to respect and fully implement the 30 per cent women’s quota in parliament, as they committed to in the 17 September Agreement.
The international partners reiterate that any threat or use of violence is not acceptable. They also emphasize the importance of free and open political space in which candidates are able to express their views peacefully and the media are able to operate without restriction.
The spirit of dialogue and compromise which led to the signing of the 17 September Agreement must be sustained to move the electoral process forward.

* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Ireland, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/107657-international-partners-urge-resolution-electoral-impasse




Date: 08 January 2021
Title: IOM supports new telemedicine project in Somalia to enhance healthcare services for migrants and host populations
Content: 08 January 2021

Mogadishu – Several hospitals and health clinics in Somalia are being equipped to strengthen their capacity to provide healthcare services, thanks to an innovative telemedicine project by the Ministry of Health and Human Services (MoH) supported by the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
IOM, through funding from the multi-donor Somalia Humanitarian Fund (SHF), handed over digital devices and office equipment to the MoH in Somalia on Thursday (January 7) to support the introduction of telemedicine in Somalia’s health system. The donation includes screens, video cameras, a PC, video conference equipment and 50 iPads.
Somalia’s health system has been significantly damaged by years of conflict and recurrent humanitarian crisis, and most of the health care workers working on the frontlines against COVID-19 and other disease of epidemic potential have limited expertise and experience of treating critically ill patients.
The new telemedicine project aims to setup the necessary facilities to enable these local medical professionals to access a growing body of health knowledge and expertise inside and outside the country. Knowledge-transfer resulting from this project will pave the way to revolutionizing the Somalia healthcare system through a systematic knowledge-transfer to improve healthcare service provision in the country.
IOM has been supporting health capacity injection through IOM’s Migration for Development in Africa (MIDA) programme, by placing diaspora health experts in hospitals and clinics throughout Somalia. Due to the current COVID-19 situation, it has been increasingly difficult to recruit senior health care workers to respond to the urgent demand of expertise to address the COVID-19 pandemic.
“This project will link doctors in Somalia with experts abroad and in other parts of the country to complement the diaspora programme which physically places diaspora doctors in the country,” explained Kerry Kyaa, IOM’s Senior Health expert.
“Telemedicine will also mitigate the limitations placed by COVID-19 on international travel and physical distancing.”
Expert doctors will help those on the frontlines with clinical diagnosis and will give real time recommendations for patient management and reduce morbidity and mortality. This will be achieved through the setup of collaboration systems to facilitate videoconferencing and teleconsultations
During the handover ceremony, Somalia’s Minister of Health and Human Services, HE. Dr. Fawziya Abikar Nur, said
“I would like to thank IOM on behalf of the Ministry of Health and the people in Somalia. IOM has done a great job with the ministry of health before during, and after COVID-19. This telemedicine project is very crucial for the health sector and the people in Somalia will benefit immensely from it.”
“IOM is proud to be supporting Somalia with this new ambitious telemedicine programme and shall continue to work with MoH and partners to ensure that migrants and displaced populations can have access to a free and better health care,” said Richard Danziger, IOM Somalia Chief of Mission.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/107298-iom-supports-new-telemedicine-project-somalia-enhance-healthcare-services-migrants-and-host




Date: 30 December 2020
Title: Secretary-General Appoints Ms. Anita Kiki Gbeho of Ghana as Deputy Special Representative of The Secretary-General for the United Nations Assistance Mission In Somalia
Content: 30 December 2020
New York – United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres today announced the appointment of Anita Kiki Gbeho of Ghana as his new Deputy Special Representative for the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM).
Ms. Gbeho succeeds Raisedon Zenenga of Zimbabwe who has been appointed as Assistant Secretary-General and Mission Coordinator of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL) and to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for his dedicated service and contribution to the work of the United Nations in Somalia.
Ms. Gbeho brings over 25 years of experience in strategic planning, coordination and management in political, development and humanitarian affairs at United Nations Headquarters and in field operations.  Her work has included establishing high level political and strategic relations with national authorities, regional bodies and partners in conflict and post-conflict environments and diverse settings such as Angola, Cambodia, Iraq, Namibia, Sudan and Somalia.  Since May 2018, Ms. Gbeho has served as Deputy Joint Special Representative of the United Nations-African Union Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) where she led the development and implementation of the Mission’s transition strategy.  From July 2015 to April 2018, she was Resident Coordinator and Resident Representative with the United Nations Development Programme in Namibia.  She has also served as Chief of Section in the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in New York and as Head of Office for OCHA in Somalia and Southern Sudan.
Ms. Gbeho holds a Bachelor of Arts in Social Sciences and African Studies from the State University of New York and a Master’s degree in International Relations from the University of Ghana.
Born in Accra, Ghana, Ms. Gbeho has a daughter.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/106700-secretary-general-appoints-ms-anita-kiki-gbeho-ghana-deputy-special-representative-secretary




Date: 19 December 2020
Title: United Nations Condemns in Strongest Terms Attack at Galkaayo Stadium
Content: 19 December 2020
Mogadishu – The United Nations in Somalia condemns in the strongest terms the attack today at Galkaayo's stadium, which reportedly killed and injured many people who had gathered ahead of a visit by the country’s prime minister.
“This reprehensible act is an attack against all the people and leaders of North and South Galkaayo who have worked so hard to keep the peace there in recent years,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.  
   
“We applaud the people of Galkaayo for standing firm in the face of such an outrage and believe that such heinous violence will not deter them, nor their fellow Somalis, from continuing on their path of peace, reconciliation and stability,” he added.
According to reports, hundreds of people had gathered at the Abdullahi Isse Stadium in the city of Galkaayo, located in north-central Somalia’s Mudug region, ahead of a planned appearance there by Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble. Senior security officials are among the casualties.  
  
The United Nations pays tribute to Somalia’s security officials who tirelessly work for the safety and security of all Somalis, and calls for those responsible to be brought to justice.  
  
The United Nations extends its condolences to the families of the victims, and wishes a speedy recovery for the injured.
Link to the original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/105780-united-nations-condemns-strongest-terms-attack-galkaayo-stadium




Date: 15 December 2020
Title: Joint Statement from International Partners on the Need for Ongoing Dialogue Among Somali Leaders
Content: 15 December 2020
Mogadishu – The recent Somalia Partnership Forum enabled all involved to openly exchange views on current developments in the country and to agree on the 2021 Mutual Accountability Framework, which sets out key priorities on inclusive politics, security and justice, and social and economic development.
However, Somalia’s international partners* remain deeply concerned about the ongoing disagreements over the implementation of the 2020/21 electoral process. Further discussion and agreement is also needed on how the 30 per cent women’s quota in committees, amongst delegates, and for seats will be assured.
These disagreements need to be resolved in a manner that respects the 17 September political agreement and the implementation protocols signed by the Federal and Federal Member State (FMS) leaders on 1 October. Initiating a parallel process or imposing disputed electoral management committees that do not meet the agreed criteria undermines the legitimacy of the electoral process and creates instability.
We therefore reiterate our call on the Federal and FMS leaders to reconvene urgently and to reach out to other stakeholders to resolve concerns about the management of the electoral process through consensus-building so that timely, transparent, and credible elections embraced by the Somali people and all key stakeholders can take place.  To that end, we welcome Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble’s commitment to convene the leaders in Mogadishu following his current visits to the Federal Member States.
We stand ready to provide support to the Federal and State electoral committees once the dialogue to resolve the dispute over their composition is successfully concluded. Transparency and good faith in implementing the electoral process according to the agreed rules will also be important.
We also stress that regular meetings of the Federal and FMS leaders throughout the electoral process and continuation of the Dhusamareb spirit of compromise will help keep the electoral process on track. The institutionalization of such meetings of the leaders will help prevent the recurrence of a protracted political impasse. To that end we would urge parties to recall commitments made at the Somalia Partnership Forum under the 2021 Mutual Accountability Framework to a secure electoral process based on ongoing dialogue, and to the establishment of a mechanism for dialogue on this process to meet not less than monthly.
In the coming weeks, we look forward to working with the Federal Government and FMSs to advance other key decisions from the Somalia Partnership Forum that require immediate follow-up. These include safeguarding the gains from the review of the Constitution prior to elections, consultations on developing the 2024/25 elections roadmap, signing the audit bill, finalizing the Somali Transition Plan, and preparing for the force generation conference planned for January 2021.
In the meantime, we call on all stakeholders to refrain from any statements or actions that could create tensions or incite violence.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/105283-joint-statement-international-partners-need-ongoing-dialogue-among-somali-leaders




Date: 14 December 2020
Title: Somalia, UN renew promise to deliver health for all, using Universal Health Coverage, urge partners to do the same
Content: 14 December 2020
On International Universal Health Coverage Day, the Somali Government, in collaboration with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), World Health Organization (WHO) and partners, renewed its commitment in accelerating efforts to provide universal health coverage (UHC) for all. They also urged other health and development partners to do the same.
“Close to 2.6 million of the most vulnerable Somalis are in need of health care,” said Dr Mamunur Malik, WHO Representative for Somalia. “By renewing our commitment to work closely together as agencies and with the Government, streamlining our efforts, and using innovative measures to provide health care and social security for all, we can ensure Somali households, particularly vulnerable populations, have access to life-saving health services. Somalia has already created a strong foundation of health personnel, some of whom deliver life-saving vaccines to children at the household level, respond to health emergencies and support women of reproductive age among other work they do. We just need to support the country to build on existing systems and infrastructure -- but we must take bold actions together, and now, to build back better and stronger and advance universal health coverage.”
Universal health coverage ensures all people everywhere, no matter where they live, have equitable access to quality health services they need without suffering financial hardship. It will strengthen health systems so that people can access vital health services even amid health emergencies, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and will enable Somalis to access health services based on their needs, not on their ability to pay.
Given the challenges Somalia’s nascent health systems have faced, the country has made incredible progress in recent years, also thanks to support from partners. For instance, in less than 20 years, the under-five mortality rate decreased by more than 27%.
Investments made in training and supporting health care workers have also paid off: for example, the number of deliveries by skilled birth attendants has increased from 22% in 2010 to an estimated 29% in 2017, and around 650 000 children are receiving life-saving vaccines every year.
Additionally, findings from the Somali Health and Demographic Survey 2020 show a reduction in maternal mortality (from 732 to 692 deaths per 100,000 live births). However, they also show that the uptake of antenatal care and delivery at health facilities is still low. Only 24 percent of women made four or more visits to a health facility in their last pregnancy, and 21 percent delivered at a health facility. These two indicators are fundamental to the improvement of maternal health outcomes and to the success of the universal health coverage at large.
“While some progress has been made, still too many disadvantaged Somali women and children are dying every day, largely from preventable causes,” said Jesper Moller, Acting Representative, UNICEF Somalia. “Most of these deaths could have been avoided if vulnerable communities had access to basic health services. Therefore, we commend the Somali Government for prioritizing the most vulnerable in their efforts to achieve universal health care for all. Providing quality health care for children, especially during their first two years in life, will help them survive and thrive so they can reach their full potential.”
“Somalia is making strides towards ensuring that no woman or baby dies at birth, which is reflected in the reduced maternal mortality rate – that has been one of the worst worldwide. We will continue to work with the Federal Government of Somalia to ensure mothers feel safe while delivering their babies in Somalia,” said Anders Thomsen, UNFPA Somalia Representative.
The Somali Government has already taken concrete steps to roll out universal health coverage, in collaboration with UN agencies and health partners. This progress includes the development of a roadmap to advance universal health coverage, address health emergencies and promote healthier populations. Somalia is also in the process of revising an essential package of health services that meets Somalis’ most pressing health needs and that every Somali will have access to one day.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/105095-somalia-un-renew-promise-deliver-health-all-using-universal-health-coverage-urge-partners-do




Date: 10 December 2020
Title: On Human Rights Day, UN Calls for all Somalis to Build a Better Somalia Post-COVID19
Content: 10 December 2020
Mogadishu – With the theme of this year’s Human Rights Day centred on ‘Recover Better. Stand Up for Human Rights,’ the United Nations envoy to Somalia today called on all Somalis to join together to build a post-COVID-19 Somalia that is better for present and future generations.
“Like other communities around the globe, the pandemic has also struck Somali society and has impacted on medical, social, political and economic aspects of the lives of Somalis,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“This has added to the existing vulnerabilities that pose a serious threat of leaving even more people behind and exacerbating the already dire situation for the country’s most vulnerable populations following the impact of floods and desert locust infestation.
“To recover better from the impact of COVID-19 entails strengthening our commitment to human rights and to achieving the objectives set out in the Sustainable Development Goals,” he added. “These include addressing inequalities among various communities, the provision of health and social protection systems, addressing environmental degradation, strengthening institutions, and addressing human rights violations.”
Observed on 10 December, Human Rights Day commemorates the day in 1948 on which the UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The theme of this year’s observance - ‘Recover Better. Stand Up for Human Rights’ - aims to ensure that human rights are at the heart of recovery efforts and to combat the effects of the pandemic on vulnerable and marginalized groups.
The Sustainable Development Goals are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and improve the lives and prospects of everyone, everywhere. The 17 Goals were adopted by all UN Member States in 2015, as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development which set out a 15-year plan to achieve the Goals.
The United Nations in Somalia remains committed to support the promotion and protection of human rights for the benefit of the Somali people during this challenging time.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/104775-human-rights-day-un-calls-all-somalis-build-better-somalia-post-covid19




Date: 09 December 2020
Title: As 16 Days of Activism against Gender-based Violence ends, UN in Somalia highlights need for continued action
Content: 09 December 2020
Mogadishu – As the annual 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence (GBV) campaign comes to an end in Somalia, the United Nations envoy to the country today highlighted the need for continued efforts to eliminate such violence and to make GBV services more accessible to Somali women and girls.
“Since the outbreak of COVID-19, emerging data and reports from those on the front lines have shown that all types of violence against women and girls, particularly domestic violence, has intensified and Somalia has not been spared from this scourge,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“Regardless of any progress made against the pandemic, more needs to be done to prioritize addressing violence against women during the COVID-19 response and recovery efforts, and this includes funding to fill gaps in service provision and raising awareness and ensuring accountability,” he added.
Around the globe, COVID-19 cases have strained health services and essential services in helping GBV survivors, such as domestic violence shelters and helplines, have reached capacity. Data indicates that 243 million women and girls were abused by an intimate partner or family member over the past year and these numbers may potentially increase during the pandemic response.
In Somalia, the GBV Information Management System data indicates an escalation in GBV cases during COVID-19. In particular, women and girls with disabilities require priority attention as they are at greater risk of experiencing discrimination, exploitation and violence.
The annual campaign, which kicked off on 25 November, on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, runs to 10 December, Human Rights Day. The theme for this year’s observance is ‘Orange the World: Fund, Respond, Prevent, Collect!’
Throughout the 16 day period, UN agencies in Somalia have worked with the government and civil society to highlight the need for ending GBV and ensuring essential services for survivors of violence during the COVID-19 crisis. Their activities include awareness campaigns, public debates and workshops, round-table discussions, and advocacy in relation to legislation of sexual offences.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/104549-16-days-activism-against-gender-based-violence-ends-un-somalia-highlights-need-continued




Date: 19 November 2020
Title: On the Hirshabelle Election Outcome and Implementation of the National Electoral Process
Content: 19 November 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners (see list below) have closely followed the establishment of the second Hirshabelle State regional assembly, the recent presidential election in the State and the ongoing preparations for the Somali federal elections.
We look forward to working with the new Hirshabelle President Ali Gudlawe in advancing reconciliation, bringing together all Hirshabelle clans and communities, combatting violent extremism and addressing Hirshabelle’s statebuilding and socio-economic priorities.
Regarding the 2020/21 federal vote, we stress the importance of preserving the spirit of consensus which led to agreements during the Federal and Federal Member States leaders’ consultations in Dhusamareb and Mogadishu. We encourage sustained dialogue within the framework of the National Consultative Council and with other key stakeholders to keep the electoral process on track and inclusive.
We particularly emphasize that achieving broad consensus on the establishment of the electoral management committees, which should include 30 per cent representation of women, and on resolving differences on how the federal vote will be conducted in the Gedo region and for the seats allocated to the Somaliland communities, will be critical to the transparency, legitimacy, feasibility and timely implementation of the electoral process. We call on FGS and FMS leaders, the electoral management bodies, clan elders and civil society to take all necessary steps to ensure that at least 30 per cent of the MPs and Senators from each community are women and that the elections will be held in a timely manner.
We will continue to engage all Somali stakeholders to advocate transparent implementation of a Somali-led, credible and peaceful federal vote based on consensus and the commitments reached by the National Consultative Council.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/101882-hirshabelle-election-outcome-and-implementation-national-electoral-process




Date: 11 November 2020
Title: Global Partnership for Education contributes additional $2.9 million to bolster basic education in Puntland
Content: 11 November 2020
Garowe, Puntland, Somalia 11 November 2020 – Through an additional $2.9 million grant to UNICEF Somalia, the Global Partnership for Education (GPE) has renewed its commitment to enhancing access and improving the quality of basic education for crisis-affected children in Puntland.
Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the new funding will play an integral part in supporting the Puntland Ministry of Education, UNICEF and partners to increase equitable access to education, improve the quality of education and strengthen education management systems in Puntland. The new $2.9 million contribution brings GPE’s funding to Puntland to a total of $13 million for 2020, including $8.8 million to support the education sector and $1.3 million for COVID-19 response in the state.
“GPE’s support for educating children in Puntland is more critical now than ever before,” said Alice Albright, CEO of the Global Partnership for Education. “Families, schools and governments are struggling to cope with the impact of the pandemic. This funding will help get more children in school and learning.”
“The continued support from the Global Partnership for Education has provided us an extraordinary opportunity to safeguard our children, particularly the most vulnerable ones, and give them a chance to learn,” said Bashir Jama Mohamed, Acting Minister and Vice Minister of Puntland Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
The additional allocation is designed to support 22,500 vulnerable girls and boys affected by crisis. This assistance will complement ongoing work and provide basic education in areas affected by food insecurity and drought, where schooling has been severely disrupted, and children’s nutritional status is poor.
The funds will help the Puntland Ministry of Education, UNICEF and partners to improve learning conditions in the schools, train teachers and mobilize, enrol and retain children in school. They will also support the Ministry in strengthening schools’ leadership and community capacity to make schools safer for girls and boys, including children with disabilities.
“Every girl and boy, everywhere, has the right to attend school and learn,” said Jesper Moller, UNICEF Somalia Representative a.i. “This new funding will not only help to give more children the opportunity to go to school but also equip them with the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in life.”
Link to the original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/100171-global-partnership-education-contributes-additional-29-million-bolster-basic-education




Date: 09 November 2020
Title: Humane Border Management Practices and COVID-19 Response Strengthened in Somalia
Content: 09 November 2020
Mogadishu, Somalia – The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is supporting Somalia to make migration safer for hundreds of thousands of migrants who pass through its borders each year while maintaining secure borders in the context of complex crisis situations such as COVID-19 by implementing effective humane border management practices.
Somalia is a key source, transit, and, to some extent, destination country for irregular migratory flows due to porous borders, including one of the largest sea borders in Africa. The country has registered 134,242 cross-border movements since March 2020, representing a decrease of 39 percent in comparison to last year where 218,441 movements were observed, mainly because of COVID-19 induced movement restrictions.
But despite the closure of official borders points, tens of thousands of migrants have continued to enter Somalia, often enduring grueling journeys, and exposing themselves to serious protection risks such as abuse and exploitation.
Moreover, most migrants have traveled in close quarters with other migrants and lived in conditions without physical distancing or access to hand washing and face coverings which has increased their risk to contract the disease.
To address the current needs brought up by the pandemic and as part of the global humanitarian response plan, IOM in coordination with the Somalia Immigration and Naturalization Directorate and Ministry of Health, conducted training for 40 frontline Somali immigration officers and healthcare workers in Mogadishu.
This training marked the first activity of a regional initiative funded by the humanitarian assistance of the Government of  Germany, which aims to enhance prevention, cooperation and strengthen capacity in border management during an emergency crisis such as the COVID-19 pandemic while maintaining awareness and respect for humanitarian aspects in migrants processing at points of entry.
Front line border officers, such as immigration, health, and other law enforcement officials, are the first persons that migrants encountered when arriving in Somalia and play a crucial role in the operational aspects of the fight against COVID-19 and human rights issues —in either the detection of suspected individuals or administering detentions, referrals, and testing services.
“This training helped me understand the need to collaborate with other institutions to ensure migrants rights are protected while providing them with needed information about the current situation,” said  Saida Mohamed Ali, who was one of the participants from the immigration office.
Now officials from both institutions know how to screen for COVID-19 and respond to possible cases. This includes how to implement an inclusive approach to all travelers and migrants, regardless of their migration status, and how to address misconceptions that could contribute to anti-migrant sentiment and xenophobia.
Richard Danziger, IOM Somalia Chief of Mission, urges:
“Now, more than ever, we need to support and strengthen both migration management and health practices across Somalia. Migrants are at a higher risk of contracting COVID-19, while they have a much lower ability to access information and supplies to protect themselves and their families.”
Irregular migration, coupled with health and security challenges, call for improved control of borders whilst facilitating healthier and legal migration channels.
IOM currently supports 22 Points of Entry (PoEs) in Somalia, including ten airports, five seaports, and seven land posts. Similar trainings are expected to take place during the coming months to build the capacity of officials working at other PoEs across the country.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/99823-humane-border-management-practices-and-covid-19-response-strengthened-somalia




Date: 03 November 2020
Title: Unaccompanied Migrant Children Finally Return Home After Months In Somalia
Content: 03 November 2020
Bossaso – Seventeen unaccompanied migrant children and five women who were stranded in Somalia for months due to COVID-19 movement restrictions, have finally returned home in Ethiopia.
The 22 migrants left Bossaso on October 29 with support from the EU-IOM Joint Initiative for Migrant Protection and Reintegration in the Horn of Africa. All the children were due to be reunited with their families while the women were to be assisted with onward travel to their communities of origin. The most vulnerable in the group will receive further reintegration assistance, including the offer of support for the children to resume their studies.
The 22 had been living in different safe houses supported by UNICEF in Bossaso, a coastal town and key transit point for migrants planning to transit through Yemen en-route to the Gulf countries.
Among the migrants was *Hakim, a 17-year-old from Harar, a city in eastern Ethiopia and about 800km from Bossaso. The young migrant had originally planned to travel to Saudi Arabia in search of a better life for himself and his family, but was not prepared for the journey ahead.
“The smugglers used to threaten us with stabbing if one of us got tired from the long walk,” he said. The most difficult part of journey was going for three days with little food and water, as well as walking for 15 days to reach Bossaso. However, the long wait is over for Hakim, who has been reunited with his family.
*Spayish, an 18-year-old woman from Ethiopia’s Amhara region who was also headed for the Gulf, used the time in limbo to think about her future.
“When I arrived in Somalia over eight months ago I had no information about the journey, I thought it was going to be easy. Now that I know about the difficulties, I decided to find a job in my country instead of going through an experience like this again,” she said.
Many of the migrants had been in Bossaso since March 2020 as they waited for the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to resume its Assisted Voluntary Return (AVR) programme which was temporarily halted due to the closure of borders. During this time, the EU-IOM Joint Initiative assisted migrants with psychosocial support, medical assistance, hygiene kits, clothes and information on safe migration as well as on COVID-19 prevention and control.
According to Carlotta Panchetti, IOM Programme Officer in Somalia, “many migrants, including children, engage in temporary informal jobs in and around Bossaso to save money to finance the rest of the trip to Yemen and onwards.” But due to the impact of the global pandemic on the economy and on border movements, there was a reduction of available work opportunities for migrants, resulting in more of them being stranded in Bossaso, unable to continue their journey or return to their communities of origin.
Recent findings by the IOM Regional Data Hub in the East and Horn of Africa, show that the share of unaccompanied migrant children among migrant children tracked at flow monitoring points on the Yemeni Coast has increased dramatically from 55 per cent in 2019 to 75 per cent in 2020.
Migrants face all manner of risks, including the possibility of being abandoned before reaching their expected destinations despite paying for their journey. Moreover, more women have reported rape and other acts of sexual violence. An increase in stigmatization and harassment has also been reported along the Eastern Route as migrants are often seen as carriers of COVID-19.
As of the end of September 2020, the IOM-supported Migration Response Centre (MRC) in Bossaso has registered 294 unaccompanied children. The centre is an open facility mainly for vulnerable migrants and those in distress. It is the main point of contact with stranded migrants.
While overall arrivals in Bossaso and registrations at the MRC have declined since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, migrants have found themselves in more difficult conditions, with many being stranded for longer periods.
‘’The closure of borders and measures imposed to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic have further exacerbated the protection needs of unaccompanied migrant children in Somalia. IOM is working closely with UNICEF and the Government of Somalia to strengthen the response to ensure that child protection services are available for these groups of children,” said Isaac Munyae, Programme Manager from IOM Somalia.
The return of the 22 migrants was organised in coordination with the Puntland administration, the MRC in Bossaso, UNICEF and local partner, the Tadamun Social Society (TASS) centre in Bossaso, a safehouse for unaccompanied migrant children.
It is the second return movement organised by IOM Somalia since the onset of COVID-19. Five Ethiopian migrants were also assisted to return during the first week of September 2020.
*Names have been changed for protection reasons.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/99029-unaccompanied-migrant-children-finally-return-home-after-months-somalia




Date: 31 October 2020
Title: On Resolution 1325 Anniversary, Federal Government and United Nations Congratulate Somali Women for their Contributions to Peace and Security
Content: 31 October 2020
Mogadishu – As the world celebrates the 20th anniversary of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, the Federal Government of Somalia and the United Nations today congratulated Somali women for their achievements and stressed the added value of their political participation and representation. 
  
Spearheaded by women leaders and organizations, the ground-breaking Resolution 1325, adopted on 31 October 2000, was the first to recognize women’s leadership to achieve international peace and security and their contributions to conflict prevention and resolution, peacekeeping and peacebuilding.
“The women of Somalia have contributed immensely to the country’s progress and development. We call on federal and state authorities, political leaders, civil society groups, and international partners to uphold the centrality of Somali women in peace, security and governance,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“The current election season presents an opportunity to bolster women’s role in Somalia’s peace and political processes. We urge Somalia’s leaders not only to ensure the 30 per cent quota for women in the forthcoming parliamentary elections but also to fulfil the commitment to 30 percent representation of women in electoral management bodies,” Mr. Swan added.
Currently, Somali women account for 24 percent of Somalia’s parliamentary seats.
Somalia’s Minister of Women and Human Rights Development, Hanifa Mohamed Ibrahim, lauded the role women have played in Somali politics and peacemaking.
“From Asha Hagi Elmi becoming the first Somali woman to sign a peace agreement in 2004 to the campaign for women’s representation in the 2012 and 2016 parliamentary processes, the gains made so far provide a foundation for further progress. We must now create new pathways for Somali women from all generations to join forces for the future,” she said.
“We will not stop in our efforts to build on these accomplishments to ensure women’s full participation and representation in politics, leadership, and decision-making,” the Minister added.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/98519-resolution-1325-anniversary-federal-government-and-united-nations-congratulate-somali-women




Date: 30 October 2020
Title: IOM Maternal and Child Health Clinic for Internally Displaced Persons Opens in Somalia
Content: 30 October 2020
Doolow - A new maternal and child health care clinic for internally displaced expectant and nursing mothers and children has been opened in Doolow, Somalia, by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in partnership with the Ministry of Health.
The new health centre, funded by the Government of Japan, was set up to assist with free health care over 5,800 families living in Kabasa, one of the most impoverished communities of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the country.
The clinic, coordinated by IOM and implemented by the local partner Human Development Concern, will provide multiple services. This includes antenatal care, delivery and postnatal care, outpatient consultations, emergency services and immunization for childhood diseases, such as tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis and polio –a disease eradicated in many parts of the world but still a problem in Somalia–. Child nutrition and treating malnutrition services will also be offered.
Prior to the opening of the clinic, many expectant mothers in Doolow had a higher risk of death because of antenatal and postnatal complications, and particularly during childbirths and stillbirths. This was due to a lack of access to maternity services caused in part by security-related restrictions of movement between IDP camps, which left many expectant mothers unable to reach the nearest maternity unit –located four kilometres away–, to which they often had to walk. As a result, many of them had to rely on unskilled traditional birth attendants.
Hawa, a mother of five, is one of the women will who benefit from the new clinic: “Today, people in Kabasa are enthusiastic, and a sigh of relief is observed as services are available day and night and mothers will be attended to by skilled midwives.” she said.
This health facility will be the first to provide delivery services in the Kabasa IDP site in over 10 years. It replaces an old health post that used to treat only emergency cases.
“Now we have five permanent rooms, well ventilated with 24/7 running water and electricity to attend patients, qualified midwives and complete delivery equipment to increase the quality of services received by mothers and their new-borns,” said Fatuma Aden, IOM’s Health Officer in Doolow.
IOM is supporting 39 other similar health facilities across Somalia. This support is crucial to the health and livelihoods of over 361,165 people. Access to health care across Somalia’s IDP population of 2.6 million is extremely limited due to years of conflict that have destroyed the already fragile health infrastructure of the country.
Somalia has the fourth-largest population of IDPs in the world. Almost three decades of conflict, recurrent and more intense climate shocks such as droughts and floods, as well as the worst locust invasion in 25 years, have forced many individuals to flee their towns and settle in displacement sites in search of safety and better access to basic services.
Moreover, the poor sanitation and hygiene conditions of the often overcrowded IDP sites and the impact that COVID-19 is having on livelihood opportunities is putting at risk the well-being of many displaced persons.
“IOM is committed to strengthening and promoting better quality and inclusive health systems that benefit migrants and the communities in which they live. Migrants contribute actively to the development of society and ensuring their access to health services not only protects public health and human rights, but it also prevents long-term health and social costs, and contributes to social and economic development,” said Kerry Kyaa, IOM’s Health Programme Manager.
IOM Somalia is supporting the Federal Government of Somalia (FGS) to bring health care services closer to migrants, displaced families, and communities in hard-to-reach areas while improving their living conditions to minimize preventable diseases and death. Since the beginning of the year, IOM has provided 361,165 health consultations and reached 378,482 individuals with health education and promotion activities at IOM supported health clinics and through mobile health teams.
Learn more about IOM’s health activities in Somalia funded by the Government of Japan on this video.
This new health clinic and others funded by the Government of Japan have been critical in ensuring that IOM, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, can bring health services to everyone, everywhere in Somalia. IOM’s health programmes in Somalia are possible thanks to the generous funding from Japan, USAID, Germany, the UN Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), the Somali Humanitarian Fund, KSRelief and the European Union.
Link to the original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/98522-iom-maternal-and-child-health-clinic-internally-displaced-persons-opens-somalia




Date: 28 October 2020
Title: UN Condemns Murder of Two Humanitarian Workers in Somalia
Content: 28 October 2020
Mogadishu – The United Nations in Somalia strongly condemns the murder of two humanitarian workers, who were reportedly killed yesterday in the capital, Mogadishu, by suspected Al-Shabaab terrorists.
The two Somali humanitarian workers were involved with an ongoing polio vaccination campaign, organized by the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Federal Ministry of Health.
“These workers were civilians providing critical health services to vulnerable children in Mogadishu. The United Nations strongly condemns this reprehensible act and emphasizes that in conflict situations all parties must respect and protect civilians,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
The United Nations in Somalia calls on the authorities to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the killings, and extends its deepest condolences to the families of the victims.
“The deaths of these two health workers are a gross violation of International Humanitarian Law. As humanitarians, they were on the frontline trying to contain a polio outbreak. It is abhorrent they were killed while trying to help others,” said the Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Adam Abdelmoula.
“I urge all parties to protect humanitarian workers, including by upholding the humanitarian principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence, so that we can eradicate preventable diseases like polio in Somalia,” the Humanitarian Coordinator added.
This killing comes at a time when 23 children have been infected with polio in Somalia. In the country’s south and central regions, humanitarian workers having been working without pause to reach 1.65 million children with oral polio vaccines, including nearly half a million children in Mogadishu.
Security remains a major constraint to humanitarian operations in Somalia. Since January 2020, 191 incidents against humanitarian operations have been recorded in which 13 humanitarian workers were killed, 12 injured, 24 abducted and 14 detained or temporarily arrested.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/98204-un-condemns-murder-two-humanitarian-workers-somalia




Date: 27 October 2020
Title: Statement on killing humanitarian workers in Mogadishu, Somalia
Content: 27 October 2020
MOGADISHI, 27 October 2020 - “UNICEF is shocked by the attack earlier today in Mogadishu, in which two humanitarian workers tragically lost their lives. These brave polio workers were on the frontlines, risking their lives to provide critical health services to vulnerable children. We offer our deepest condolences to the families of the victims.
“Attacks on health workers are a violation of international law and must not be tolerated.  UNICEF condemns the cowardly attack in the strongest terms and calls on the authorities to conduct a comprehensive investigation. Humanitarian workers should never be a target.”
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/97655-statement-killing-humanitarian-workers-mogadishu-somalia




Date: 24 October 2020
Title: Health workers instrumental to immunization, Somalia commends on World Polio Day
Content: 24 October 2020
MOGADISHU, 24 October 2020 – On World Polio Day today, Somalia is celebrating polio workers’ continued commitment to reach and immunize every child in the country to end all forms of polio, and the role they play in strengthening health systems and responding to health emergencies.
Since the inception of Somalia’s polio eradication programme in 1997, hundreds of polio health workers have worked to stop outbreaks of various types of polioviruses, also extending their support to shield communities from cholera, measles and other diseases.
Polio teams have set up supply chains to deliver vaccines to every accessible corner of the country and to dispatch samples for testing to laboratories in a timely manner. They have also established sensitive and modernized surveillance systems that can raise alerts about diseases within communities, share real-time information with stakeholders and set up social mobilization networks to disseminate health messages in every district of the country. While establishing crucial systems for health delivery and strengthening links between communities and health service providers, the teams have set up strong foundations for public health services.
Since the start of the year, polio health teams have joined the fight against COVID-19 in Somalia, providing support in tracing, tracking and following up with suspected and confirmed cases. Although health workers were forced to pause regular health services to attend to the COVID-19 pandemic, last month, Somalia took bold steps to resume regular health activities, by conducting immunization campaigns to stop the spread of a rare strain of poliovirus.
To end the currently ongoing outbreak of polio, which has already infected 23 children, the Federal Ministry of Health and Human Services (FMOH) of Somalia, World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) confirm that well-trained health teams will conduct the final round of a two-round house-to-house polio campaign in the central and south regions of the country, from 25-28 October.
“The first round of this vaccination campaign demonstrated that Somali health workers can be counted on to deliver vital immunization services safely during the COVID-19 pandemic. Using masks, sanitizer, hand washing and physical distancing measures, vaccinators and teams of social mobilizers safely met with families, answered parents’ questions and vaccinated children. Round one was a great success, and we have high expectations for round two,” said HE Dr Fawziya Abikar Nur.
In line with this year’s theme for World Polio Day, ‘A win against polio is a win for global health,’ Dr Mamunur Malik, WHO Representative for Somalia joined the Minister of Health in commending polio workers.
“Thanks to the strides we have made so far, we would like to believe we are in the final stretch in the polio eradication journey now,” said Dr Malik.
“Every one of us needs to be cautious though, as even with wild poliovirus no longer in Africa, other strains of poliovirus still threaten Somali children. If Somali caregivers join the fight and ensure their children receive polio vaccines every time they are offered, we will be able to kick polio out of Somalia. This will help us to build on the legacy we have built so far, to stamp out other communicable diseases from the country,” he said.
Some of the main challenges Somalia faces include reaching vulnerable children who are difficult to access due to security and other logistical challenges, and assuring caregivers that polio vaccines are safe for newborns.
“Aiming to reach every single child and providing vaccines to the most vulnerable children is part of our long-standing, collective commitment to child survival in Somalia. We are committed to working with the government and partners to eradicate vaccine-preventable diseases, strengthen routine immunization, and build stronger primary healthcare systems, so that the country can offer all of its children a better chance to survive and thrive,” said Jesper Moller, UNICEF Somalia Representative a.i.
The upcoming campaign in numbers:
All parents and caregivers are reminded to accept vaccines every time they are offered, to give children the best protection against polio.
This polio campaign is supported by the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI), an organization dedicated to the eradication of polio. Launched in 1988, the GPEI is spearheaded by national governments, the World Health Organization (WHO), Rotary International, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and UNICEF, and supported by key partners including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance.
Download: Press release in Somali [PDF]
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/97155-health-workers-instrumental-immunization-somalia-commends-world-polio-day




Date: 23 October 2020
Title: Ahead of Elections, UN Urges that Somalia’s Political Space Remain Open to All
Content: 23 October 2020
Mogadishu – As Somalia prepares to hold elections, the United Nations today highlighted the need to ensure the country’s political space remains open, allowing for a diversity of voices and views to be expressed as part of the democratic process. To achieve this, freedom of expression, opinion, and assembly must be protected.
“A vibrant political space is one that permits and encourages the participation of all segments of society – individual citizens, the media, civil society, public institutions, and political parties, among others.  A democratic society must allow different viewpoints on political issues to be expressed openly, free from restriction or harassment,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“Somalia has made progress on governance reforms in recent years, and now it is imperative to expand political space further as the country prepares for elections. It is particularly important that the voices of historically marginalized groups be heard,” he added. “Democracy is more than the holding of elections; it also means ensuring a country’s political space allows for the participation of all in public life.”
The United Nations in Somalia notes that freedom of expression, opinion, and assembly are core democratic values enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Provisional Constitution of Somalia.
The United Nations stands ready to work with Somali authorities and civil society to protect and expand Somalia’s political space.
Link to the original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/97156-ahead-elections-un-urges-somalia%E2%80%99s-political-space-remain-open-all




Date: 15 October 2020
Title: United Nations and Federal Government of Somalia sign New Cooperation Framework
Content: 15 October 2020
Mogadishu – The Federal Government of Somalia and the United Nations today signed a new cooperation framework which sets out how the country and the world body will work together over the next five years to achieve peace, stability and prosperity for all Somalis.
The signing ceremony for the framework – the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNCF) – was held in the capital, Mogadishu, and attended from the government’s side by Deputy Prime Minister Mahdi Mohamed Guled, and the Federal Minister of Planning, Investment and Economic Development, Gamal M. Hassan.
From the world body’s side, those attending included the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan, and the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Adam Abdelmoula, who also serves as the UN Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Somalia.
The UNCF will replace a similar, previous agreement – the UN Strategic Framework (UNSF) – which expires at the end of this year.
“Since signing of the UN Strategic Framework in December 2017, Somalia has made remarkable progress in its journey towards consolidating peace and sustainable and inclusive development, with steadfast UN support,” Mr. Swan said at the signing ceremony.
The UNCF represents the collective commitment of the Federal Government of Somalia and the United Nations to work together in support of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Goals are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and improve the lives and prospects of everyone everywhere, and were adopted by all UN Member States in 2015 as part of the 2030 Agenda, which sets out a 15-year plan to achieve the SDGs.
In particular, the UNCF outlines ways in which the United Nations intends to support government-owned and government-led priorities. The Framework’s main pillars of activity directly mirror those of Somalia’s ninth National Development Plan (NDP-9), namely, inclusive politics and reconciliation; security and the rule of law; economic development; and social development.
“The UNCF is an impressive achievement of collaboration across levels of the UN, Government and other stakeholders,” said Mr. Abdelmoula. “It is through this Framework that the UN, with our partners, will further strive to address the structural causes of chronic fragility and instability that have constrained inclusive and sustainable development in Somalia for decades.”
In his remarks at the event, Deputy Prime Minister Mahdi Mohamed Guled commended the efforts of the United Nations and said he looked forward to strengthening the government’s partnership with it in order to address Somalia’s complex challenges across the humanitarian-development-peacebuilding nexus.
“I welcome the UN’s clear commitment to supporting Somalia’s national development priorities through the direct alignment of the Cooperation Framework with the NDP-9, as well as the aid coordination architecture,” he said.
The event was attended in-person and virtually by a number of government and UN officials, as well as representatives of the diplomatic community.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/95744-united-nations-and-federal-government-somalia-sign-new-cooperation-framework




Date: 14 October 2020
Title: On Third Anniversary, United Nations Remembers Victims of Deadly Mogadishu Attack
Content: 14 October 2020
Mogadishu, 14 October 2020 – On the third anniversary of the 14 October 2017 suicide bombing in the Somali capital of Mogadishu, the United Nations today paid tribute to the victims and survivors of the horrific attack and reaffirmed the world body’s solidarity with all Somalis.
“Together with Somalis, the United Nations family is focused on the future and on continuing to build on progress towards peace, good governance, and prosperity”.  Advances since 2017 are a reflection of Somalis’ resilience and desire for a better tomorrow despite the scourge of violent extremism. The callous brutality of the attack on 14 October 2017 is not forgotten, however, and our thoughts remain with the families of those who lost their lives, as well as with the survivors,” said the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
The attack killed at least 587 people and ranks as the deadliest ever terrorist bombing in Africa involving the use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs). Hundreds more were injured in the blast.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/95536-third-anniversary-united-nations-remembers-victims-deadly-mogadishu-attack




Date: 14 October 2020
Title: Somalia Humanitarian Fund allocates US$9.26 million for floods response
Content: 14 October 2020
The Somalia Humanitarian Fund (SHF) has released US$9.26 million to scale up priority life-saving assistance to nearly 300,000 people affected by floods in Somalia. These critical funds, part of the SHF 2020 Reserve Allocation, will support national and international non-governmental partners operating in Banadir, Hiraan, Lower Juba, Middle Shabelle and Lower Shabelle regions through integrated and Cluster-specific interventions.
“Funding from the SHF will enable aid organizations to scale up and sustain life-saving assistance to the most vulnerable flood-affected communities in the worst-affected areas in the country,” said Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, the Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia. “As the Deyr season persists, continuous donor funding will be needed to boost humanitarian operations and support recovery across Somalia.”
A total of $8.18 million from the Reserve will be allocated towards priority interventions to provide food assistance, non-food items and emergency shelter, support for health facilities, water services, sanitation and hygiene (WASH). In addition, the SHF funds will support critical protection services with emphasis on child protection and gender-based violence. The funds will also support the Logistics Cluster to ensure timely delivery of essential humanitarian goods and personnel in hard-to-reach and underserved areas. Some $1.08 million of the allocation will support integrated health and nutrition activities as well as integrated education, child protection and WASH activities.
“Already, vulnerable communities due to persistent climatic shocks, locust infestation and the COVID-19 pandemic, are facing severe food and water scarcity and are at risk of deadly communicable diseases such as cholera outbreak and acute watery diarrhoea (AWD),” said Mr Abdelmoula. “With limited resources and funding, the humanitarian agencies in Somalia are overstretched and in need of urgent support to provide timely and deliberate response.”
The SHF - funded by Australia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Republic of Korea, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the UN Foundation – has allocated $40.2 million to Somalia to-date.
The 2020 Deyr rainy season has started with moderate to significantly heavy rains reported in Puntland and central regions of Hiraan, Bakool, Galgaduud, Mudug, Nugaal and southern areas of Sool region. The communities living in the riverine areas along Juba and Shabelle rivers are at high risk of flooding. As heavy rains are expected to continue in November and December, scaling up of livelihoods, improving and supporting health services and WASH facilities is vital in order to prevent further deterioration in food security and escalation of the public health crisis.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/96275-somalia-humanitarian-fund-allocates-us926-million-floods-response




Date: 14 October 2020
Title: On Baidoa Visit, International Representatives Discuss Elections, Security and Economic Issues
Content: 14 October 2020
Baidoa, 14 October 2020 – On a visit to Somalia’s South West State today, representatives of some of the country’s key international partners highlighted the importance of the Federal Government and Federal Member States working together for the good of all Somalis.

“We are encouraged by the revitalization of the dialogue between the Federal Government and all of the Federal Member States. This has included the series of meetings in Dhusamareb in recent months and consultative meetings in Mogadishu in September during which the agreement on the elections model was reached,” said the United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.

“We appreciate President Abdiaziz’s leadership at many stages of this process,” he added, at a brief press conference in the interim capital of Baidoa following a group meeting with the President of South West State, Abdiaziz Hassan Mohamed ‘Laftagareen.’

The UN envoy traveled to Baidoa with the Special Representative of the Chairperson of the African Union (AU) Commission, Ambassador Francisco Madeira; the European Union’s (EU) Ambassador to Somalia, Nicolas Berlanga Martinez; and, from the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), the Head of Mission, Jamal Ahmed Ibrahim.

In his remarks, Mr. Swan said the results of the Dhusamareb and Mogadishu meetings demonstrated what can be achieved when Somalia’s leaders come together in a spirit of consensus and collaboration.
“We urge the leaders to continue with the preparations for the national elections so that they are underpinned by transparency, fairness and inclusivity,” the UN Special Representative said. “This applies to all aspects of the electoral process, such as the formation of federal- and state-level independent electoral committees, the Dispute Resolution Committee and Elections Security Committee.”
Mr. Swan also noted the importance of close collaboration to ensure security around the elections, and recognized the efforts of the South West State administration in this regard, despite persistent threats from Al Shabaab.
The partners also encouraged Somalia’s leaders to extend their cooperation further in areas such as the constitutional review and other processes that can help advance national priorities, democratic reforms and essential freedoms, such as freedom of speech and freedom of the press.
“These are all key components of a lively democratic system that will allow Somali voices to be heard,” Mr. Swan, adding that the AU, EU, IGAD and UN will continue to stand with the people of South West State as they build a better future.
On the economic front, the international partners recognized the damaging impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and its disruption of economic growth in South West State, and also underscored the importance revenue collection and good governance for the future development of the state.
Link to original press release.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/95698-baidoa-visit-international-representatives-discuss-elections-security-and-economic-issues




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: As the fifth anniversary of Somalia’s ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child approaches, protection violations against children continue to rise
Content: 21 September 2020
MOGADISHU, 21 September 2020 – Nearly five years ago, on October 2, 2015, Somalia made a historic leap to uphold the rights of children by becoming the 196th country to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).
“The CRC is the mostly widely ratified global treaty in the world,” said Werner Schultink, UNICEF Somalia Representative. “The cornerstone of this treaty is to recognize that anyone under the age of 18 is a child and their right to protection from all forms of abuse is clearly articulated.”
While there has been an expansion in services to support victims of abuse, sexual violations against children continue at an alarming rate and there is little or no opportunity to seek justice. As an example, findings reported by UNICEF child protection partners showed that from January 2020 to June 2020 there has been a 25 per cent increase in reported cases of gender-based violence (GBV) against women and girls in Somalia compared to the same period the year before. This increase has been compounded by the COVID-19 outbreak and demonstrates the need for protection policies to be put in place at the Government level.
In addition, harmful practices against girls including child marriage and female genital mutilation (FGM) are widely practiced. According to Government data Somalia has a 99 per cent prevalence rate of FGM – the highest in the world. Somali children frequently also continue to be forced into early marriage with 34 per cent of girls married before their 18th birthday and 16 per cent even before the age of 15.
“By signing the CRC, Somalia made a commitment to not only treat children with dignity but put in place legislation that protects them from harm,” said Schultink. “We know, that at both the Federal and State levels, relevant ministries have worked tirelessly to establish a legal framework to protect people, especially women and children, from all forms of abuse and uphold their rights and we continue to support those attempts. It is critical that acts of sexual violence and harmful practices are criminalized, and perpetrators are brought to justice.”
To help children who have been abused, UNICEF and partners are supporting GBV centers throughout the country. These safe havens provide a variety of critical services including clinical health care and psychosocial counselling. UNICEF also works at the community level with local leaders to change social norms and educate families on the negative impact of harmful practices including child marriage and FGM.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/91957-fifth-anniversary-somalia%E2%80%99s-ratification-convention-rights-child-approaches-protection




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: International Partners note announced FGS-FMS electoral agreement
Content: 21 September 2020
Mogadishu - International partners* take note of the agreement announced by the Federal Government of Somalia (FGS) President and the five Federal Member State (FMS) Presidents regarding the 2020/21 electoral process.
They acknowledge that this agreement resulted from a Somali-led and Somali-owned dialogue among FGS and FMS leaders, and understand that some details of the agreed process are still to be clarified and additional stakeholders may be consulted.
The partners observe with regret that the announced model falls short of the longstanding Somali goal of direct voting for members of parliament in this electoral cycle. The partners urge that the 2020/21 electoral process be free, fair, transparent and inclusive.
Looking to the future, international partners encourage rapid progress to establish other Somali democratic institutions, including the judicial services commission and the human rights commission, along with efforts to advance the review of the Provisional Federal Constitution and ensure respect for international commitments on human rights.
Partners would also welcome a roadmap with clear milestones, agreed among Somali political leaders, to ensure decisive democratic progress going forward. International partners appeal to the FGS and FMS leaders to continue meeting regularly in a spirit of dialogue and compromise to address urgent national priorities, including security and economic reform as well as inclusive politics.

* Belgium, Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Sudan, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States of America, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/91988-international-partners-note-announced-fgs-fms-electoral-agreement%C2%A0




Date: 21 September 2020
Title: WHO, UNICEF urge caregivers in south and central parts of Somalia to vaccinate children against polio, while observing health and safety measures for COVID-19
Content: 21 September 2020
MOGADISHU, 21 September 2020— The World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) are urging parents and caregivers in south and central parts of Somalia to ensure all children aged under five are vaccinated against polio during a special house-to-house immunization campaign, which began yesterday and runs until 23 September. Both agencies are advising health workers and caregivers to observe health and safety measures against COVID-19 during the four-day campaign.
This advice comes in the wake of efforts to curb the spread of the ongoing polio outbreak in the south and central parts of Somalia. The strain of polio that is in circulation is different from the wild poliovirus, recently declared as eradicated from Africa, but it can also put communities where not enough children have been vaccinated at risk and leave children paralyzed for life. The outbreak has paralyzed 19 children since late 2017.
“The only way to stop such outbreaks from vaccine-preventable diseases, including polio, is to vaccinate every child every time immunization services are offered, either through routine programmes or through such mass campaigns. We all have a moral responsibility to reach and boost the immunity of every last child in Somalia. Owing to access, security and health-seeking behaviour, we are missing a large number of children every year, who are not receiving these life-saving vaccines,” said Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Representative for Somalia.
During the ongoing campaign, 6 266 vaccinators in urban areas and 2 685 vaccinators in rural areas will be going from door to door to vaccinate 1.65 million children aged under five with oral polio vaccine. In efforts to reach every child possible, an additional 1 125 team supervisors will be visiting households in targeted areas. 3 390 community mobilizers, sensitizing target communities, will play a key role in helping families to understand, trust and accept vaccines.
“It is critical that all routine immunizations continue, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Werner Schultink, UNICEF Representative for Somalia. “These vaccination drives will help prevent further outbreaks and will protect children from deadly diseases so they can survive and thrive.”
Before the campaign, polio health workers were trained and supplied with personal protective equipment, including face masks, soap and hand sanitizer, to keep them and communities safe from COVID-19.
This campaign is the first step in a two-part effort to raise immunity levels among Somali children. Somalia’s Government, WHO and UNICEF will conduct the second part of the campaign in October to continue to strengthen the immunity of Somali children. Parents and caregivers are encouraged to accept the vaccine when it is offered to give their children life-long protection against polio.
Notes to editors
This polio campaign is supported by the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI), an organization dedicated to the eradication of polio. Launched in 1988, the GPEI is spearheaded by national governments, the World Health Organization (WHO), Rotary International, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and UNICEF, and supported by key partners including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/91792-who-unicef-urge-caregivers-south-and-central-parts-somalia-vaccinate-children-against-polio




Date: 15 September 2020
Title: At Six-Month Mark in Covid-19 Response, United Nations Lauds Somalia’s Health Workers
Content: 15 September 2020

Mogadishu – As Somalia reaches the six-month milestone since the announcement of the country’s first confirmed case of coronavirus (COVID-19), the United Nations family in Somalia today lauded the many health workers who have worked tirelessly to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and provide support to infected people.
“The efforts that Somali health workers have made to contain the pandemic and help those affected by the virus have literally saved lives. This heroic work is a testament to their commitment and dedication, often under extremely challenging conditions,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“They achieved these life-saving outcomes despite a very fragile and weakened health system in Somalia - the result of three decades of conflict, protracted crisis and repeated humanitarian emergencies.  The results show their fortitude as well as the importance of the Somali authorities and national and international partners working together,” he added.
Along with national and international partners, the United Nations family – spearheaded by the UN World Health Organization (WHO) – began ramping up its support even before the first case of the deadly virus was announced on 16 March. In February, it began working with Somali authorities to prepare for the prevention and early detection of imported cases, and the management of suspected and confirmed cases within communities.
Since then, the United Nations and its partners helped Somalia deploy 73 well-trained rapid response teams, including more than 3,300 community health workers in 49 districts across the country, for early case detection and contact tracing. These frontline health workers have visited more than 1.5 million households over the last six months, reaching approximately six million people – contributing significantly to reducing transmission and slowing down the virus’ spread.
The United Nations’ collaboration with national medical authorities also led to the establishment of 18 isolation centres across the country,  equipped with ventilators, oxygen concentrators, intensive care unit beds and other material; the transport of thousands of samples and pieces of equipment around the country; and public health campaigns to raise awareness about COVID-19.
“Over the past six months, this unprecedented event has required an unprecedented response – an integrated, coordinated and timely response. This took place, and working as ‘One UN’ the UN agencies in Somalia will continue supporting Somali-led activities to serve and protect the most vulnerable and help health systems recover better and stronger from this crisis,” said the Secretary-General’s Deputy Special Representative for Somalia, Adam Abdelmoula, who also serves as UN Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator for the country.
At the same time, while the past six months have seen achievements in containing the pandemic in Somalia, the United Nations highlighted that the response to COVID-19 was far from over.
“I would like to remind everyone that we may still have a long way to go. Even though cases in the national count may seem to have dropped, we still have to reach more communities and vulnerable people – I strongly urge Somali communities to do their part and exercise caution to avoid COVID-19 infections,” said the WHO Representative for Somalia, Dr. Mamunur Rahman Malik. “To our donor community, I extend our sincere gratitude for the support provided. However, the job is not done yet; we still need to strengthen the public health system from grassroots levels upwards to build back better in Somalia.”
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/90964-six-month-mark-covid-19-response-united-nations-lauds-somalia%E2%80%99s-health-workers




Date: 14 September 2020
Title: International Partners Welcome FGS-FMS Dialogue on Electoral Model
Content: 14 September 2020
Mogadishu - International partners* welcome the resumption of dialogue between the Federal Government of Somalia (FGS) and the five Federal Member States (FMS). The partners commend President Mohamed Abdullahi ‘Farmaajo’ and the FMS Presidents for participating in these important meetings in Mogadishu.
The partners urge the Somali leaders to engage fully in serious dialogue aimed at reaching broad agreement on a credible and implementable electoral model. The partners hope that other key Somali political stakeholders will also be consulted, as discussions advance, to expand support for an agreement and its implementation.
International partners appeal to Somalia’s leaders to be guided by the national interest and the democratic aspirations of the Somali people at this historic moment.
* - African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Norway, Qatar, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States of America, and the United Nations
Link to the original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/90871-international-partners-welcome-fgs-fms-dialogue-electoral-model




Date: 13 September 2020
Title: More Help for Vulnerable Migrants in Somalia as IOM Opens a Migration Response Centre in Mogadishu
Content: 13 September 2020

Mogadishu – A new Migration Response Centre (MRC) catering to the needs of vulnerable migrants returning to Somalia is due to open its doors in Mogadishu.
It follows the official hand-over (on 13 September) of the facility by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to the Banadir Regional Administration, its main governmental counterpart in Mogadishu. The city represents a hub for returning migrants both through IOM programmes of voluntarily return as well as for migrants forcibly returned.
The new MRC is funded by the European Union Trust Fund (EUTF) and the Migration Resource Allocation Committee (MIRAC). Other funding support for the running of the MRC will come from the EU-IOM Joint Initiative for Migrant Protection and Reintegration in the Horn of Africa.
The new MRC is the eighth of this kind in the East and Horn of Africa and complements the services provided by the two other MRCs, located in Bossaso and Hargeisa. These facilities serve as one-stop centres for stranded migrants and returnees, including victims of trafficking (VOTs) and Unaccompanied and Separated Children (UASC), in need of information and protection related services.
The new MRC will contribute to IOM’s objective towards strengthening the humane management of mixed migration flows in Somalia. Somalia presents a complex and diverse migration profile as a source, transit and destination country at the centre of multiple migration routes.
Returning migrants often lack access to basic services such as medical, psychosocial and legal assistance and are in need of support in reintegrating into their communities of origin through a sustainable process.
The Mogadishu MRC is part of IOM Somalia’s efforts to expand its migrant protection, assistance and community engagement activities across the country.
“It will provide migrants with direct assistance, information, counselling, and referrals, as well as play a key role in promoting the sustainable reintegration of Somali returnees provided with Assisted Voluntary Return and Reintegration (AVRR).” said Isaac Munyae, IOM Somalia Programme Manager.
Speaking during the opening ceremony, the Mayor of Mogadishu within the Banadir Regional Administration, Honorable Omar Mohamed Mohamud, highlighted the importance of boosting efforts to protect the rights of migrants and returnees.
“This is a special MRC because it is the first in in South and Central Somalia that will provide services to vulnerable Somali returning migrants,” he said.
Richard Danziger, IOM Somalia Chief of Mission added that:
“There is no question that once they come back, many of these young Somali migrants need support, and the right support on their return will really contribute to the rebuilding of Somalia.”
The MRC also complements work carried out under the EU-REINTEG Programme on ‘Facilitating Return through Laying Foundations for Somalia in the Horn of Africa’ (FLASH), that seeks to ensure a more robust approach to mixed migration dynamics in the region.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/91243-more-help-vulnerable-migrants-somalia-iom-opens-migration-response-centre-mogadishu




Date: 25 August 2020
Title: Somalia launches first national nutrition survey since 2009
Content: 25 August 2020
Mogadishu, Somalia 25 August 2020 – The Micronutrient Survey launched by Federal Ministry of Health and UNICEF today shines a spotlight on the nutrition status of women and children in Somalia.
According to the survey, the nutrition status of women and children has improved during the past decade. Nine in ten infants are breastfed and the prevalence of both stunting and wasting has decreased.
“Completing the micronutrient survey is an accomplishment that we should all be proud of. It shows our unwavering commitment to the women and children of Somalia. But while we celebrate the good progress, let us remember that the fight against malnutrition in Somalia is not yet over,” said the Acting Minister of Health H.E Dr Fawziya Abikar.
The survey results indicate that good nutrition is still out of reach for millions of Somali children under the age of five. While many babies are breastfed, only a third of them are exclusively breastfed for six months. This places them at greater risk of diarrhea and malnutrition. Almost one in five children show signs of chronic malnutrition and one in ten are acutely malnourished. These deadly conditions curtail children’s physical and brain development. Vitamin A deficiency affects a third of children, exposing them to infections and weakening their immune systems. Iron deficiency anaemia, impacting more than a quarter of all children, hinders their ability to learn.
The COVID-19 pandemic is exasperating the situation further and putting vulnerable lives at risk. The stretched healthcare systems, interrupted food systems and loss of income inhibit many children and women from gaining access to nutritious diets and essential nutrition services.
“The micronutrient survey has provided us with invaluable data on the nutritional status of Somali women and children,” said UNICEF Somalia Representative Werner Schultink. “The results of this study will help chart the way forward so that we can invest in long-term and effective strategies to ensure children can reach their full potential.”
The survey calls for interventions to improve women’s nutrition before and during pregnancy, actions to support breastfeeding from the first hour of life, interventions to improve infant and young child feeding practices to increase dietary diversity and improve vitamin and minerals intake, and programmes to provide nutrition supplements, information and food.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/88514-somalia-launches-first-national-nutrition-survey-2009




Date: 20 August 2020
Title: UNHCR and WFP announce new life-saving food aid for refugees and asylum seekers in Somalia
Content: 20 August 2020
Mogadishu, 20 August 2020 -The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Somalia signed a three-month agreement last month to provide lifesaving food assistance to some 30,000 refugees and asylum seekers in Somalia, mainly women and children. Distribution of the more than 1,500 metric tons of food has already begun in Mogadishu, Galkayo and Bossaso, and is expected to commence in Somaliland on 23 August.  
 
Somalia’s refugees and asylum seekers are comprised mainly of Ethiopians and Yemenis who fled conflict and persecution in their own countries, most of them settling in Berbera, Bossaso, Galkayo, Hargeisa and the country’s capital Mogadishu. A review by UNHCR indicates that the vast majority of refugees and asylum seekers calling the agency’s hotlines during the COVID-19 period have lost their only source of livelihood and are unable to meet their basic needs since March. Prior to the loss of work, many refugees and asylum seekers in Somalia worked as casual labourers or small business owners.
“The outbreak of the coronavirus in Somalia has made life extremely difficult for the most vulnerable, including refugees and asylum seekers, with many at risk of going hungry,” said UNHCR Representative Johann Siffointe. “We have seen that since the pandemic, foreigners are sometimes stigmatized and among the first to lose their daily wages, making this partnership with WFP so vital in cushioning the blow they are facing.”
For its part, WFP will provide a three-month supply of food rations consisting of cereals, pulses and oil. UNHCR’s community-based NGO partners and WFP will carry out distribution in localities where the refugees and asylum seekers have settled.  Distribution will be carried out in a single series of days or weeks depending on the number of those receiving assistance in each location.  Nearly two-thirds of the refugees and asylum seekers are in Somaliland, where the distribution is expected to take more time. In all distribution sites, COVID-19 prevention measures such as physical distancing, washing of hands and wearing of masks will be strictly enforced.
“We welcome this partnership with UNHCR which gives WFP an opportunity to save the lives of the most vulnerable, including refugees and asylum seekers. We do everything we can so that no one is left behind particularly in this difficult time,” said WFP Somalia Deputy Country Director Emmanuel Bigenimana.
The cash assistance provided by UNHCR to vulnerable refugees and asylum seekers has not been enough to meet their basic needs in the context of the pandemic, underscoring the need for the one-time extraordinary food distribution. Somalia reported its first case of COVID-19 on 16 March. The Federal Government of Somalia immediately formed a National Task Force and set aside US$ 5 million for its National Contingency Plan for Preparedness and Response to COVID-19.  The Government also called on donors and UN agencies to support the response plan.
As part of its COVID-19 response, UNHCR and partners have rolled out a number of interventions including cash-based assistance, provision of medical equipment, personal protective equipment (PPE) and decongestion of shelters, as well as advocating for a moratorium on evictions during a time of enhanced vulnerability caused by the pandemic.
WFP continues to serve the most vulnerable and severely food-insecure in Somalia as it adapts its interventions to the challenges of COVID-19.   It has introduced an online shopping app which enables those receiving WFP cash assistance to buy food from retailers in their neighborhood and have the food delivered to their homes.  It also introduced mobile money transfers in order to minimize the risk of exposure to corona virus among those receiving the assistance.
The COVID-19 pandemic comes against a backdrop of lasting and severe flooding and a locust invasion in Somalia that has aggravated the already complex and protracted humanitarian situation in the country.
Link to original press release.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/88416-unhcr-and-wfp-announce-new-life-saving-food-aid-refugees-and-asylum-seekers-somalia




Date: 19 August 2020
Title: Federal Government of Somalia and UN call for the protection of aid workers in commemoration of World Humanitarian Day
Content: 19 August 2020
Mogadishu, 19 August 2020: On the occasion of World Humanitarian Day, the Federal Government of Somalia and the United Nations in Somalia are calling for the protection of aid workers who provide life-saving assistance to vulnerable children, women and men in the country. These workers are #RealLifeHeroes.
“This year, World Humanitarian Day has come at a critical time when the triple threat of COVID-19, floods and desert locusts has aggravated Somalia’s complex, protracted humanitarian crisis,” said the UN Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Mr. Adam Abdelmoula. “The humanitarian community estimated that 5.2 million people would need assistance and protection in 2020, but the situation is worsening. Without sustained assistance, 3.5 million people will fail to meet their minimum food needs by September. In addition, we must shift the paradigm to sustainable solutions that help build resilience and lift people out of poverty,” Mr. Abdelmoula added.
The operating environment in Somalia is particularly challenging for humanitarian workers due to widespread insecurity and poor infrastructure, which hampers the delivery of assistance to people in need. Access constraints surged during the first half of 2020, with 141 incidents reported against humanitarian operations by the end ofJuly, compared to 151 in all of 2019. Eleven humanitarian workers were killed, 11 wounded and 23 kidnapped, including seven who were kidnapped and murdered in a single incident.
“I want to express my heartfelt gratitude to Somali aid workers, for their continued and unwavering service to humanity in one of the world’s most dangerous operating environments,” said Mr. Hamza Said Hamza, Somalia Federal Minister for Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management. “I want to make special mention of the Somali humanitarian workers who form the backbone of the humanitarian operation in the country.”
Since March, Somalia has recorded more than 3,200 COVID-19 cases and 93 deaths. Concurrently, floods have affected nearly 200,000 people since late June in Hirshabelle, South West and Jubaland States, as well as Banadir region; displacing approximately 124,200 people from their homes and damaging large acreages of farmland. Futhermore, desert locusts have devoured thousands of hectares of crops and pasture in Somaliland, Puntland and Galmudug. Strong storms have hit the coastal regions of Lower Juba and Lower Shabelle affecting the fishing industry with boats capsizing and some fishermen still uncounted for.
The triple threat has exacerbated pre-existing vulnerabilities in Somalia, disrupted positive gains in socio-economic activities including farming and business, affected livelihoods especially for low-income earners and poor families, and strained the health care system. On 19 June, Emergency Relief Coordinator Mr. Mark Lowcock approved an allocation of US$15 million to support a partial activation of the anticipatory action framework to mitigate the compounding impact on food security of COVID-19, locusts and flooding. In addition, the 279 humanitarian organisations that are implementing programmes in all 18 regions of Somalia have scaled up their activities to meet increased needs.
This year, World Humanitarian Day marks the 17th anniversary since the Canal Hotel attack in Baghdad, which killed 22 people, including the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq. In 2009, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution designating 19 August as World Humanitarian Day. Every year on this day, we shine a spotlight on the millions of civilians and humanitarian workers around the world whose lives have been caught up in conflict.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/87866-federal-government-somalia-and-un-call-protection-aid-workers-commemoration-world




Date: 19 August 2020
Title: International Partners Encourage Participation By All Leaders In Crucial Elections Meeting And Offer To Facilitate Implementation Of Outcome
Content: 19 August 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners (listed below) welcome the arrival of the Federal Government leadership and that of several Federal Member States in Dhusamareb, on 15 August, to begin their follow-up meeting, as scheduled.
They also welcome the commencement of work by the joint technical committee tasked with developing options for a compromise electoral model for consideration by the leaders.
The partners strongly encourage Federal Member State leaders who have yet to join the meeting to directly engage with their colleagues now in Dhusamareb to resolve any outstanding issues in order that all may participate.
The partners emphasize that the participation of all leaders in this summit is critical to sustain the consensus-building process and produce a broad-based agreement on modalities for the 2020/21 federal elections that satisfy all Somali stakeholders. They remind all leaders of the importance of safeguarding Somalia’s state building progress and honoring previous commitments.
In this regard, the partners once again stress that any attempt by a single stakeholder, or a few stakeholders, to impose electoral modalities will lack legitimacy and will not be implementable without the essential support from all other stakeholders.
The partners are closely monitoring developments in Dhusamareb and follow up on the actions agreed and stand ready to offer such support as may be requested by all participants to facilitate implementation.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, Djibouti, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/88037-international-partners-encourage-participation-all-leaders-crucial-elections-meeting-and




Date: 17 August 2020
Title: United Nations Condemns Deadly Terrorist Attack On Mogadishu Hotel
Content: 17 August 2020
Mogadishu – The United Nations in Somalia strongly condemns the terrorist attack on the Elite Hotel in Mogadishu on Sunday, which reportedly killed at least 16 people and left many more injured.
“This brazen attack targeted civilians, including government workers, peacefully enjoying their Sunday evening, causing many casualties. This savagery has no place in the country being built by Somalis and it merits the strongest condemnation,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“This abhorrent attack should not and will not deter Somalis, and the entire United Nations family in Somalia reaffirms its commitment to and solidarity with all peace-loving Somalis in the face of such violence,” he added.
According to reports, Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack, which involved a car bomb at the seaside hotel, followed by a gun battle between the terrorists and Somali security forces.
The United Nations in Somalia expresses its deepest condolences to the families of the victims, and wishes a speedy recovery for the injured.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/87771-united-nations-condemns-deadly-terrorist-attack-mogadishu-hotel




Date: 14 August 2020
Title: International Partners Urge Somalia’s Leaders To Hold Crucial Meeting On Elections
Content: 14 August 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners (listed below)* look forward to the reconvening of the Federal Government and Federal Member States leaders in Dhusamareb on 15 August, as scheduled, with all FMS and FGS leaders attending. Preserving the recently cultivated trust among the leaders and sustaining the consensus-building process initiated during the last Dhusamareb summit is imperative in order to keep Somalia on a stable political path.
Failure by any leader to participate in the next summit would erode the still fragile trust, undermine the consensus-building process and impair the ability of the meeting to arrive at implementable decisions. With only three months left before the November date on which the 2020 federal elections were scheduled to take place, and only four months before the 10th Federal Parliament’s term ends, Somali stakeholders urgently need to agree on the way forward, and on the electoral modalities in particular, without further delay.
The work of the technical committee tasked to develop recommendations for electoral modalities to be considered by the leaders is critical for the success of the anticipated summit. We remain concerned that some Federal Member States are yet to send their representatives to the committee. We urge them to allow their representatives to participate in the work of the committee, which is already underway, while they continue to directly engage the Federal Government leadership to resolve any outstanding issues.
We recall that, during the last summit, the leaders agreed that timely elections that satisfy all stakeholders and that are implementable, must take place in the country. The technical committee should, therefore, focus on devising options for a compromise electoral model, in order to satisfy all stakeholders.
We stress, once again, as we have done in our previous statements and in our ongoing discussions with all stakeholders, that any model dictated by a single stakeholder, or by a few stakeholders without the consent of all, will have no legitimacy and will not be implementable on the ground. We further stress that, with the end of the term of the 10th Parliament looming, the way forward should be agreed by all stakeholders, including the Federal Government, Federal Member States, the two Houses of Parliament, and political parties. No single stakeholder, including the legislature itself, should take a unilateral decision to extend the term of office of the 10th Parliament or of the federal executive.
We stand ready to provide the support necessary for the convening of the next Dhusamareb summit and the substantive work of the technical committee.
Link to original press statement.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/87517-international-partners-urge-somalia%E2%80%99s-leaders-hold-crucial-meeting-elections




Date: 09 August 2020
Title: UNFPA calls for the passage of a Sexual Offences Bill that is based on human rights & protection of women & girls
Content: 09 August 2020
Mogadishu, 9 August 2020 - It is with great concern that we have learnt about the inaction of the Parliament of Federal Government of Somalia to introduce the Sexual Offences Bill adopted by the cabinet and submitted by the Ministry of Women and Human Rights in 2019 for reading and passage into law.
“We are calling for the immediate passage into law of the Sexual Offences Bill, which has been pending adoption by the Parliament. The law will be vital in preventing and criminalizing all sexual offences. UNFPA Somalia calls for the strengthening of protection systems as women and girls continue to be at high risk of experiencing gender-based violence,” said UNFPA Somalia Representative Mr. Anders Thomsen.
UNFPA does not support any bill with potentials to violate the rights of women and girls and expose them to further violence and deprivation nor does it support a bill that deviates from norms and standards of international human rights.
Women and girls in Somalia deserve to be protected from Gender-Based Violence and Harmful Traditional Practices.
Today and every day, let us stand up for the human rights, safety and dignity of every woman and girl everywhere in Somalia.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/86850-unfpa-calls-passage-sexual-offences-bill-based-human-rights-protection-women-girls




Date: 08 August 2020
Title: UNDP and Aar Maanta release new song warning COVID-19 still threat to Somalia
Content: 08 August 2020
Leading Somali Musician, Aar Maanta, and Somali music producers, Waqal Studio, have announced a new collaboration with some of the most popular artists in the Somali music industry on a group song to raise awareness about the dangers of coronavirus in Somalia, which remains a threat across the country.
This collaboration, one of the first of its kind among Somali artists, was written by Abdirahman Fili and features leading singers Suldaan Seeraar, Hodan Abdirahman, Cabdi Hani, Yurub Geenyo, Abdirisaq Anshax and Nadiira Nayruus. The song and music video, which is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), encourages people to follow public health guidelines by staying 2m apart, regularly washing hands with soap and staying at home if possible.
“This unique collaboration brings together some of the most influential Somali artists to help people stay vigilant, because COVID-19 hasn’t gone away and is even getting worse in many places around us,” said Dr Hodan Ahmed Hashi , who demonstrates how to wear a mask in the video . “The need for our collective voice has never been greater and we hope this special song, as well as advice and guidance from health professionals, will save lives by reminding people that COVID-19 is still dangerous and still with us.”
The initiative is the latest part of an extensive UNDP campaign to take advantage of Somalia’s rich oral culture by engaging poets, comedians, singers and other artists to make sure people receive crucial health messages.
“It’s never an easy ask to get people to make changes in their daily lives to fight an invisible threat,” said Jocleyn Mason, UNDP Somalia’s Resident Representative. “But artists like Aar Maanta can turn health messages into something magical that people will want to listen to and are more likely to take onboard.”
Through promotion on radio, TV and through the singers’ individual social media networks, the song is expected to reach millions of people across the country and the diaspora. Similar UNDP campaigns have already reached more than 10 million people via TV and radio broadcasts and through online platforms.
“This project has given Somali Artists the opportunity to work together and forge new partnerships and we will not stop here,” said Aar Maanta. “Together we will defeat COVID-19 and continue to help our people by taking part in other important social campaigns.”
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/88483-undp-and-aar-maanta-release-new-song-warning-covid-19-still-threat-somalia




Date: 05 August 2020
Title: Somali Migrants Return Home After Several Months Stranded in Iran
Content: 05 August 2020
Mogadishu – Eleven Somali nationals and Muhammed Hussein Abukar, Somalia’s ambassador to West Africa and Special Envoy to Iran, safely returned to Somalia after nearly six months of being stranded in the Islamic Republic of Iran due to COVID-19 global movement  restrictions.
Their return, completed on Saturday (2 August) was facilitated by the International Organization for Migration (IOM), in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the Special Envoy on Migrant’s and Children’s rights in Somalia.
Mohammed, a 20-year-old from Mogadishu had been in detention for over a year by the time his family reached out to IOM for support in February. Like others in the same predicament, the young Somali could not communicate regularly with his family since he left the country.
Mohammed could not contain his excitement as the plane bringing him home landed just days ago.
“I would like to spend time with my family especially my mother whom I have missed so much,” he said.
The COVID-19 pandemic has necessitated governments to take various containment measures, designed to limit the spread of the virus. These extraordinary measures, including travel and mobility restrictions, are having an impact on all people, but some are exacerbating the precarious situations and vulnerabilities of migrant populations and in particular, leading to a large number of migrants being stranded. Loss of jobs and income, lack of employment, loss of residence permits and lack of resources to return home have all impacted mobility
This is unprecedented historically. Migrants are stranded for various reasons beyond restrictions on travel and the related drop in international flights.
As visas and permits expire migrants are also facing deportation. This increases the possibility of further limiting access to health care and social support, stigmatization and xenophobia. This also raises risks of detention in already overcrowded facilities, as well as homelessness
The 11 migrants and the Ambassador had been under lockdown for several months in a hotel in Tehran, as they eagerly waited to be reunited with their loved ones in Somalia.
Two of the returnees were studying at a university in Tehran when the country went into lockdown for physical distancing in an attempt to stop further transmission of the virus in the country. All of a sudden, the Somali students could not attend classes, nor return home.
The rest of the group had been intercepted by the Iranian authorities and detained whilst trying to reach Europe. While in detention, migrants and the family members contacted and sought help from IOM.  To facilitate their return, the Ambassador flew into Iran right before the COVID-19 pandemic erupted. As a result, their return flights were cancelled unexpectedly.
Thanks to the efforts of IOM and the Somali Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the migrants were able to depart the Islamic Republic of Iran and finally arrived at Aden Adde International Airport in Mogadishu.
Mohammad Safari, Officer in Charge and Program Development Officer, IOM Mission in the Islamic Republic of Iran, described some of the obstacles the returnees faced.
“We tried to arrange return flights from Tehran several times with different airlines when the opportunity arose, but all the flights were cancelled as the COVID-19 situation and movement restrictions took place around the world,” he explained. ”I am really thankful for the support of Iranian authorities to issue exit permit six times over the weekend and holidays.”
There were also COVID-19 positive cases in the facility where the migrants stayed, which further delayed their return.
Besides the final flight home, IOM also coordinated officials in with Ankara, Turkey, and Doha, Qatar, for Laissez-Passer for the migrants, to ensure that all carried appropriate travel documents.
While waiting to return, IOM provided the migrants and the Ambassador with accommodation, meals, and other basic items, as well as regular health check-ups prior to their travel to ensure the safety of the group, including four COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and fit-to-fly tests.
Now in Somalia, IOM will assist the returnees to reach their final destinations across the country and will be ready to offer basic healthcare support and psychosocial assistance to those that need it.
“Many migrants continue to be stranded all over the world unable to be with their friends and families during this difficult time due to the COVID-19 global pandemic. IOM will continue to support Somali nationals stranded across the world to safely return home and calls for all governments to help stranded migrants," said Richard Danziger, Chief of Mission, IOM Somalia.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/86410-somali-migrants-return-home-after-several-months-stranded-iran




Date: 30 July 2020
Title: Un Extends Warmest Wishes To All Somalis On Eid Al-Adha
Content: 30 July 2020
Mogadishu – The United Nations in Somalia extends its warmest wishes to all Somalis as they celebrate Eid al-Adha.
“On behalf of the entire United Nations family in Somalia, I wish you all Eid Mubarak!” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan. “We join you in hoping that the spirit of harmony and kindness of this holy celebration will continue, and help bring greater unity, peace and stability across Somalia. Ciid Wanaagsan!"
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/86177-un-extends-warmest-wishes-all-somalis-eid-al-adha




Date: 28 July 2020
Title: Somalia’s International Partners Urge Political Consensus To Ensure Timely Elections, Advance National Priorities, And Preserve Stability
Content: 28 July 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* express their concern and their strong hope that recent political developments, including in the Federal Parliament, will not undermine efforts to reach political consensus on timely elections, disrupt Somalia’s reform agenda, or create instability that may reverse the gains made so far on national priorities.
The partners have consistently called for inclusive consultations to achieve broad-based agreement on the modalities for the 2020 elections. This is why they welcomed the decisions reached by the Federal and State leaders in Dhusamareb on 22 July as an important step towards that goal.
The international partners expect the Federal and State leaders to honour the agreements reached on 22 July in Dhusamareb and the timelines for follow-up meetings bringing together the Federal Government, Federal Member States, the Federal Parliament leadership, political parties and civil society representatives. Any attempt by a single stakeholder to unilaterally impose electoral modalities will lack legitimacy and will not be implementable without the essential support from other stakeholders. The partners will closely follow developments going forward. Commitment to agreed national priorities and to resolving issues through dialogue and compromise is vital for continued international support to Somalia at current levels.
The partners urge the immediate nomination of all members of the FGS-FMS Technical Committee and stand ready to facilitate its work, so that it can be completed within the agreed two weeks from the date of the Dhusamareb meeting.
*Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Qatar, Spain, Switzerland, Sweden, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/54468-somalia%E2%80%99s-international-partners-urge-political-consensus-ensure-timely-elections-advance




Date: 28 July 2020
Title: Statement by UNFPA Somalia Representative Mr. Anders Thomsen on the need to prioritise the fight against GBV and FGM amidst COVID-19 response
Content: 28 July 2020
Mogadishu, 28 July 2020 – Now is the time to ensure that interventions for the prevention, mitigation and response to Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) receive priority attention in Somalia as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to take a staggering toll on vulnerable communities especially women, girls and internally displaced persons (IDPs).
A newly released “GBV/FGM Rapid Assessment Report - in the context of COVID-19 Pandemic in Somalia” indicates that COVID-19 is leading to circumstances which increase the risk of exposure for women and girls to higher levels of both Gender-based violence and Female Genital Mutilation. Measures to contain the spread of the pandemic, including lockdowns, school disruptions, present opportunities for girls to be subjected to FGM with ample healing time. These measures restrict women’s ability to engage in livelihood activities thereby reducing family incomes, which has contributed to increasing tensions and intimate partner violence in households and families.
“The release of this new report must be a call to all stakeholders including donors and humanitarian actors come together to ensure that GBV services such as clinical management of rape, psychosocial counselling, hotline services and shelter provision continue to be treated as essential service during and beyond COVID-19. It is critical to ensure that equipment, infrastructure and staff necessary to ensure that these services are safe and available are prioritized to meet the needs of vulnerable women and girls including GBV survivors and girls at risk of FGM,” said UNFPA Somalia Representative Mr. Anders Thomsen.
Mr. Thomsen reiterated a call on the Government of Somalia to pass the Sexual Offences Bill and act expeditiously to end the practice of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) across the country.
The GBV/FGM rapid assessment was organized and undertaken by the GBV Area of Responsibility (GBV AoR) to generate data and information on the impact of COVID-19 on GBV/FGM incidents and GBV service provision. UNFPA leads the GBV AoR. The assessment also interrogated factors around COVID-19 and stigmatization, access to health services for women and adolescent girls and the impact of the pandemic on schooling for adolescents’ boys and girls.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/54487-statement-unfpa-somalia-representative-mr-anders-thomsen-need-prioritise-fight-against-gbv




Date: 24 July 2020
Title: Somalia International Partners’ Joint Statement Following Dhusamareb Fgs-Fms Meeting
Content: 24 July 2020
Mogadishu, 24 July 2020 – Somalia’s international partners* hope that the important meeting between  Somalia’s Federal Government (FGS) and Federal Members States (FMS) leaders in Dhusamareb represents the long-awaited resumption of constructive collaboration between the FGS and the FMS leaders.
The partners welcome the leaders’ decision to form a technical committee to work out election modalities for the 2020 national elections.  As the committee’s work moves forward, broad-based agreement among Somali stakeholders will be necessary. The partners reiterate that the electoral process must move the country away from selection processes and toward direct elections, as codified in the Provisional Federal Constitution. International partners therefore urge all Somali stakeholders to pursue their efforts quickly to attain these objectives and keep the country on a stable political path, in the interests of the Somali people.
In addition to the electoral model, international partners also urge Somali leaders to agree on a plan to implement other aspects of Somali democratic reform, including the Constitutional Review, the formation of a multiparty democracy and creation of a functional Judicial Services Commission, Human Rights Commission, and Constitutional Court. They also underscore the need to ensure that candidates, parties, women, youth, minority communities and the media across the country can express themselves freely, especially during the election period.

*Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Qatar, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and the United Nations
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/54247-somalia-international-partners%E2%80%99-joint-statement-following-dhusamareb-fgs-fms-meeting




Date: 23 July 2020
Title: UNICEF and partners respond to the triple threat of floods, locusts and COVID-19
Content: 23 July 2020
An estimated 5.2 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, including over 3 million children, due to the combined devastating impact of floods, the locust invasion and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
“Somalia is one of the most fragile nations in the world, a country that has experienced decades of conflict, cyclical drought and floods,” said Jesper Moller, Deputy Representative of UNICEF Somalia. “Now, to compound the situation, the impact of the locust invasion and the COVID-19 pandemic means the international community has to act fast to help save the lives of millions of Somali families, especially the most vulnerable – the children.”
Children are often the hidden victims of any emergency and are more susceptible to waterborne diseases as a result of the flooding and severe malnutrition due to food shortages.
“In the recent month, there has been an upsurge in cases of Acute Watery Diarrhoea/Cholera,” said Moller. “To further exacerbate the situation, while the immediate impact of the locust invasion is on crop production, which is projected to be 10 to 15 per cent lower than the long-term average, the secondary impact will be on children with an anticipated increase of children being severely malnourished due to food shortages.”
In response to this triple threat, UNICEF, in close coordination with the Government and local partners, are working tirelessly to not only prevent and mitigate the spread of COVID-19, but to continue to provide life-saving assistance to those desperately in need.
As part of ongoing efforts, nearly 1 million vulnerable people have received critical hygiene items including access to safe water and over 500,000 women and children have been provided with basic health and nutritional services in flood impacted communities and camps for the internally displaced. In addition, more than 500,000 households have been visited by social mobilizers to raise awareness on COVID-19 prevention measures.
UNICEF’s overall humanitarian appeal for Somalia is for $129 million with an additional $35 million for the COVID-19 response. To date, over 60% of the COVID-19 appeal has been funded but for the overall emergency response, only $30 million has been received.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/87774-unicef-and-partners-respond-triple-threat-floods-locusts-and-covid-19




Date: 20 July 2020
Title: Puntland Ministry of Education and UNICEF launch on-line learning platform
Content: 20 July 2020
Garowe, Somalia 20 July 2020 – As schools remain closed due to the COVID-19 crisis, UNICEF and the Government of Puntland in Somalia have launched the Learning Passport, a digital remote learning platform where children can access educational content both online and offline from their homes. The Learning Passport is a ground-breaking partnership between UNICEF, Microsoft and the University of Cambridge.
“Puntland is leading the way in Africa in adopting the Learning Passport,” Abdullahi Mohamed Hassan Puntland Minister of Education and Higher Education. “Children will be able to access high quality lessons in line with the official curriculum and not become the hidden victims of the COVID-19 crisis by missing out on an education.”
At this initial stage of the rollout, over 11,000 children, almost half of them girls, are able to access over 600 recorded lessons and videos for Grade 8 students, with already 12 subjects uploaded. It can be accessed using a computer or through a mobile application.  More lessons are under development and will be uploaded onto the Learning Passport to enable all primary and secondary students have access to this innovative learning platform.
Teachers will be able to monitor children’s progress and parents can also access learning materials so they can play a critical role in supporting their children’s education.  The Learning Passport will help to drive learning outcome improvement.
“The Learning Passport is a changemaker when it comes to remote learning,” said Phuong T. Nguyen, UNICEF Somalia Chief of Education. “In any emergency, maintaining a child’s education is critical to provide a sense of security and routine and keep children safe. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, school closures were a necessary measure but due to today’s technology, this did not mean their education had to stop.”
Even when schools open, the Learning Passport will continue to support children with additional learning opportunities beyond their daily school routine. It will also be made available for the most vulnerable children who are internally displaced and have no access to learning centers or other remote educational opportunities.
The Ministry of Education and Higher Education of Puntland has become the first ministry of education from Africa to adapt the Learning Passport platform for the dissemination of their curriculum to reach out more children. We congratulate the leadership of the ministry for their commitment to providing access to education to all children this remarkable initiative.
Download press release in Somali [PDF]
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/53834-puntland-ministry-education-and-unicef-launch-line-learning-platform




Date: 17 July 2020
Title: Joint Press Statement on Somaliland’s Political Parties Agreement
Content: 17 July 2020
Mogadishu – The International Partners (listed below) supporting Somaliland’s democratization process welcome the Somaliland Political Parties agreement, signed on 12th July 2020, to conduct Local Council and Parliamentary Elections in 2020.
This landmark agreement presents new opportunities to advance preparations for the elections and requires the NEC to present technical time schedule within 14 days starting from 12th July 2020.
Having all Somalilanders being part of the process, notably the large majority of young women and men who have never voted for their representatives or had the opportunity to be elected, is of utmost importance for the democratic credentials and the stability of Somaliland.
The international partners call for all stakeholders to ensure that women, youth and minority groups are being included, both as voters and candidates and call on the President, Political Parties, Parliament, the NEC and the Supreme Court to include women and minorities quota in their decisions.
The international community strongly commends Somaliland’s progress towards the elections and are ready to support the Somaliland’s electoral process, including safeguarding the women and the minorities quota.
* Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Djibouti, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United States, and United Nations.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/53457-joint-press-statement-somaliland%E2%80%99s-political-parties-agreement




Date: 11 July 2020
Title: Statement by the UNFPA Representative for Somalia Mr. Anders Thomsen on World Population Day
Content: 11 July 2020
The unprecedented fight against gender-based violence and harmful practices; including Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) and early marriage should be prioritized as part of the wider efforts to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 among the Somali population.
Mogadishu, 11 July, 2020 – The unprecedented fight against gender-based violence and harmful practices; including Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) and early marriage should be prioritized as part of the wider efforts to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 among the Somali population.
According to the recently published Somali Health and Demographic Survey (SHDS), annually, one in 10 ever-married women experience physical violence perpetrated by their spouse. Lockdown measures to contain COVID-19 and the resultant economic impacts are associated with increasing household tensions, which are likely to result to an upward surge in the cases of spousal violence.
FGM is almost universally practised in Somalia, despite years of campaigns and the negative impact associated with the practice. According to SHDS, 99 percent of women have undergone FGM of which two out of three have weathered the extreme form of mutilation.  Girls in Somalia, forced to stay at home due to COVID-19, are now undergoing FGM in their homes. COVID-19 could have a far-reaching impact on the effort to end FGM, with a potential 2 million FGM cases occurring over the next decade that could have otherwise been averted.
FGM has lifelong consequences for girls, has no health benefits and harms girls and women in many ways. FGM promotes early marriage among girls, a practice that robs girls of life opportunities stopping them from reaching their full potential.
Further, the SHDS report shows that 33 percent of women are married by age 18 and 140 per 1000 women aged 15 to 19 years have given birth. The COVID-19 pandemic puts the young Somali girls at a greater risk of early marriage and pregnancies potentially killing hopes of bettering their lives and that of their families.
Maternal mortality in Somalia remains high with 1 in 20 women aged 15 expected to die of pregnancy/birth-related complications by age 49. FGM, early marriage, low uptake of modern contraception at only 1 percent, and poor uptake of anti-natal care compounded by high unskilled and home deliveries contribute to high maternal mortality rates. COVID-19 cases are already straining health facilities a situation that is likely to contribute significantly to a reduction in anti-natal care attendance and an increase in home deliveries.
UNFPA calls for the speedy passage of the Sexual Offences Bill and FGM Bill in Somalia. These are vital in preventing and criminalizing all sexual offences and eradicating FGM.
On this World Population Day, we call attention to the vulnerabilities and needs of women and girls during the COVID-19 crisis, and why protecting sexual and reproductive health and rights and ending the shadow pandemic of gender-based violence is imperative, especially in these challenging times.
Link to original statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/52961-statement-unfpa-representative-somalia-mr-anders-thomsen-world-population-day




Date: 30 June 2020
Title: Statement by UNFPA Somalia Representative Mr. Anders Thomsen on the launch of State of World Population 2020 report
Content: 30 June 2020
Mogadishu, 30 June 2020 – The launch today of UNFPA’s annual flagship report; the State of World Population 2020: “Against my will: defying the practices that harm women and girls and undermine equality” presents an opportunity to call on the Government of Somalia to act expeditiously to end the practice of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) across the country.
Somalia is one of the countries in the world with the highest prevalence of FGM. The recently-launched Somali Health and Demographic Survey (SHDS) indicates a prevalence of 99 percent among women and girls aged 15 to 49 years. Somalia continues to lack critical legislative framework to end FGM due to weak political will and the lack of consensus among key religious groups for zero tolerance for FGM.
Recently media reports have revealed that the school closures during the COVID-19 epidemic have exposed girls to an inordinately high risk of FGM.  The lockdown has been seen as an opportune time for the procedure to be carried out in the home with ample time for healing.  In addition, increased economic hardship as a result of COVID19 encourages FGM traditional practitioners to seek out clientele by knocking door-to-door to cut girls.
Across Somalia, many champions are working tirelessly to ensure the abandonment of FGM. UNFPA stands with these champions. However, it is also important that the Government of Somalia takes concrete actions to ensure that FGM is prohibited to ensure that women and girls are protected from this harmful practice that undermines their health and well-being.
UNFPA continues to work to ensure that every woman and girl in Somalia is able to realize her full potential.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/51409-statement-unfpa-somalia-representative-mr-anders-thomsen-launch-state-world-population-2020




Date: 29 June 2020
Title: During A Visit To The National Laboratory, Un Envoy Commends Advances In Testing Of Covid-19, And Welcomes Efforts To Build Medical Capacity For The Future
Content: 29 June 2020
Mogadishu – On a visit to Somalia’s National Public Health Reference Laboratory (NPHRL) today, the United Nations envoy to the country commended Somalia’s advances in diagnostic testing for COVID-19, and highlighted the importance of the national laboratory and other laboratories throughout the country in the COVID-19 response.
“Over the last four months, the NPHRL has played a critical role in the pandemic response by detecting cases and monitoring virus circulation. The NPHRL has worked alongside two other public health laboratories with molecular testing capability for COVID-19. This has helped the country to test and track virus circulation across the country, and to detect high virus transmission areas for early containment,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
 
“Diagnostic testing for COVID-19 is critical, and the United Nations and international community are committed to supporting the national laboratory,” he added. “The progress in scaling up Somalia’s capacity to confront the COVID-19 pandemic demonstrates what can be achieved when national and international experts work hand in hand.”
On today’s visit, accompanied by the UN World Health Organization’s (WHO) Country Representative, Dr. Mamunur Rahman Malik, the UN Special Representative was shown around by the Director of NPHRL, Dr. Sahra Isse Mohamed, and engaged with the laboratory’s staff. 
 
With the emergence of COVID-19 in Somalia, the NPHRL was rapidly upgraded to an appropriate bio-safety level, and WHO donated a real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)-based testing machine to immediately capacitate it for testing COVID-19 samples. Testing of COVID-19 sample by real-time PCR machines is regarded by WHO as the ‘gold standard.’ 
 
After training by international experts, NPHRL staff are now testing COVID-19 samples on their own. 
 
The NPHRL started to test samples for COVID-19 in April, and can now test up to 180 samples a day. The current testing capacity can further be upgraded to 360 samples a day whenever needed. 
 
Almost 7,000 samples tested
 
From 7 April to 23 June, the NPHRL has tested 6,572 samples for COVID-19. The laboratory is also the only reference laboratory for testing of COVID-19 samples collected from some of the Federal Member States, notably Galmudug, Hirshabelle, South West State and Jubaland.  
 
WHO has provided the internal quality assurance protocol and training online to ensure that standard laboratory quality assurance measures are strictly followed at the NPHRL. The UN health agency has provided enough testing kits and other items for testing samples until September 2020, and has also provided other supplies.
 
WHO has also supported the establishment of two other real-time PCR-based laboratories in Garowe and Hargeisa, and is providing similar types of support in the form of laboratory equipment and consumable supplies.  
 
While the laboratories are currently focussed on the COVID-19 response, the United Nations sees the three laboratories as an investment for Somalia's future.
“The NPHRL and the two other laboratories with PCR-based testing capability will be able to rapidly detect and diagnose any other infectious diseases in the future – including any new and novel disease pathogens, and without any external support or assistance. This is an important investment for the future of Somalia,” Mr. Swan said.
In addition to WHO, the UN World Food Programme (WFP), UN Support Office for Somalia (UNSOS) and UN Development Programme (UNDP) have provided support for the NPHRL, as have other international partners.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/51305-during-visit-national-laboratory-un-envoy-commends-advances-testing-covid-19-and-welcomes




Date: 29 June 2020
Title: Federal Elections And Political Consensus Building
Content: 29 June 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners (listed below) followed the address to the House of the People on 27 June by the Chairperson of the National Independent Electoral Commission (NIEC) in which she presented technical options for holding one-person-one-vote elections as close as possible to the constitutionally mandated timeframe.  We thank the Chairperson for her presentation to the House of the People.
We emphasise the continued need for Somalis to engage in inclusive dialogue to forge the widest possible agreement on this important topic, and underscore the importance of a complete and comprehensive dialogue among the FMS and FGS leaders.
We welcome the announcement by President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed ‘Farmajo’ that he will convene a meeting with all Federal Member State leaders from 5 to 8 July and we urge that this meeting be the next step in a broad consultation of key stakeholders.
We note the Parliament has also been meeting to discuss issues related to the electoral code.  We urge that political agreement be fostered ahead of final decisions. We call on all of Somalia’s leaders to work to reach agreement urgently on the path to holding national elections and other pressing national priorities.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and United Nations.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/51306-federal-elections-and-political-consensus-building




Date: 23 June 2020
Title: Statement by the UNFPA Representative for Somalia Mr. Anders Thomsen on the rape of a 13-year-old
Content: 23 June 2020
We strongly condemn the rape of a 13-year-old girl from an orphanage in Hargeisa, Somaliland recently and denounce this gruesome act of sexual violence. It is with great concern that we continue to see girls and women suffering different kinds of gender-based violence including sexual assault.
UNFPA stands with the young girl’s family. We applaud the speed at which authorities are carrying out investigations and we call for the proper judicial process to take its course.
UNFPA calls for the full implementation of the Sexual Offences Law which is already in place in Somaliland. The law is vital in preventing and criminalizing all sexual offences.
We also call for the strengthening of protection systems as women and girls continue to be at high risk of experiencing gender-based. Today and every day, let us stand up for the human rights, safety and dignity of every woman and girl everywhere.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/50402-statement-unfpa-representative-somalia-mr-anders-thomsen-rape-13-year-old




Date: 22 June 2020
Title: Newly Appointed IOM Chief of Mission Presents his Credentials to Somalia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
Content: 22 June 2020
Mogadishu - The International Organization for Migration (IOM) office in Somalia is pleased to announce the arrival of its newly appointed Chief of Mission, Mr. Richard Danziger, who arrived in Mogadishu on 19 June 2020.
Mr. Danziger will take leadership of the organization’s office and programmes operating in coordination with governmental and non-governmental partners across Somalia. The organization currently employs more than 400 individuals working across all six states of Somalia with a focus on improving the life of displaced families, migrants and people in hard to reach areas.
Due to COVID-19 restrictions, Mr. Danziger presented his credentials virtually to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, H.E. Ahmed Awad.
“I am honoured to join the IOM Somalia team and will continue to support the efforts taken by the Government of Somalia to deliver the National Development Plan and to address migration challenges, including responding to humanitarian needs in the country, whilst working to promote dialogue among migrants and communities and finding durable solutions to protracted displacement.”
Prior to his arrival in Somalia, Mr. Danziger, a UK national, served as IOM’s Regional Director for West and Central Africa (WCA). In that capacity he chaired the WCA Regional UN Development Group in 2017 and 2018 and led the recalibration of the UN Integrated Strategy for the Sahel.  He has previously served as Chief of Mission in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Indonesia and Sri Lanka and the Maldives. He also previously headed IOM’s Migrant Protection and Assistance Division in Geneva, chaired the World Economic Forum’s Council on Illicit Trade and Organized Crime, and he has also been a member of their Future Council on Migration.
Mr. Danziger is regularly involved in research projects and is currently on the board of a PRIO/ODI-led multi-year research on migration and development which counts Somalia as one of the target countries.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/50262-newly-appointed-iom-chief-mission-presents-his-credentials-somalia%E2%80%99s-minister-foreign-affairs




Date: 21 June 2020
Title: During Visit to COVID-19 Hospital with Minister of Health, UN Envoy Flags Need for Continuing Support and Praises Somali Health Workers
Content: 21 June 2020
Today, the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan, accompanied the Federal Minister for Health and Social Care, Dr. Fawziya Abikar Nur, on a visit to a leading Somali hospital playing a critical role in patient care management for COVID-19.  
 
The United Nations envoy called for continuing international support for the government’s response to the pandemic and praised the efforts of healthcare workers.
“Since the start of the pandemic, the United Nations family has supported the Somali government’s response to the COVID pandemic in a range of integrated ways. The De Martino Hospital has been central to testing, case detection and critical care support in Somalia,” said Mr. Swan.
 
“I am glad to have the chance to see first-hand the work being carried out by Somali health workers in responding to the need for patient care and critical care support. It has been a welcome opportunity to express the UN’s solidarity with these courageous individuals who are on the front-lines of Somalia’s efforts in combatting the outbreak,” he added. "I commend the health workers and the government on their tireless efforts."
The hospital has 71 dedicated isolation beds for COVID-19 patients and 16 ventilators, with its resources including an isolation centre. Along with other partners of the UN system in Somalia, the UN World Health Organization (WHO) continues to provide technical, logistical and operational support to the hospital with patient management and care.
 
The United Nations family’s support for Somalia’s COVID-19 response includes planning, coordination, and policy development support; capacity-building of health professionals working in laboratories and hospitals; the establishment and operation of a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) laboratory in Mogadishu, Garowe and Hargeisa; logistical assistance with the supply of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), ventilators and other equipment; and providing operational support to the hospitals, isolation centres and laboratories.
 
According to the federal Ministry of Health and WHO, as of 20 June, there have been more than 2,755 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Somalia, with 88 deaths. The cases include 133 healthcare professionals, with one reported death among them.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/50210-during-visit-covid-19-hospital-minister-health-un-envoy-flags-need-continuing-support-and




Date: 20 June 2020
Title: On World Refugee Day, UN Calls for Continued Efforts to Help Refugees and Displaced People in Somalia
Content: 20 June 2020
Mogadishu – Marking World Refugee Day, the United Nations in Somalia today called for continued efforts to alleviate the plight of refugees and displaced persons in Somalia.
Despite significant efforts by the Somali authorities, there are still at least 2.6 million Somalis who are internally displaced, and the country hosts more than 30,000 refugees and asylum-seekers, mainly from Ethiopia and Yemen.
“I pay tribute to the resilience and courage of refugees and displaced persons, and all those fleeing conflict or persecution. I assure them that the United Nations is committed to their protection and to helping to rebuild their livelihoods. We also support the Somali government to uphold their right to asylum and protection. This has been made more challenging by the COVID-19 pandemic,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan,
“World Refugee Day comes at a time of a triple threat for Somalia – in addition to the COVID-19 pandemic, the country is dealing with effects of desert locusts and flooding. These have presented unprecedented challenges, yet we have seen remarkable resilience and contributions from displaced persons who are doing their part to make a difference, with activities such as making face masks and soap[AR1] . We must stand with them and ensure that the gains are not lost,” said the Representative of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), Johann Siffointe.
In Somalia, refugees and displaced populations are particularly vulnerable to the COVID-19 pandemic due to the large number of people living in congested urban centres and settlements for internally displaced people (IDPs).  
 Nearly 800,000 Somali refugees continue to reside in the Horn of Africa region, with outflow figures in recent years in sharp decline given Somalia’s progress in peace and security. Over the course of the past decade, many refugees have decided to return home and UNHCR has assisted with voluntary repatriation of more than 90,000 Somali refugees.
World Refugee Day celebrates the extraordinary courage and resilience of the forcibly displaced and pays tribute to the generosity of host and donor governments and populations. The theme of this year’s Day is ‘Everyone can make a difference, Every Action Counts’ and comes against a backdrop of the global COVID-19 pandemic and calls for equality.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/50122-world-refugee-day-un-calls-continued-efforts-help-refugees-and-displaced-people-somalia




Date: 19 June 2020
Title: UN Calls for More Action to Eliminate Conflict-related Sexual Violence in Somalia
Content: 19 June 2020
Mogadishu – On the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict, the United Nations envoy to Somalia today called on Somalia’s leaders, communities and partners to do more to assist and listen to victims and survivors of conflict-related sexual violence (CRSV). He called for all people to stand in solidarity with those who have endured these acts, and to act decisively to eradicate CRSV in Somalia. He paid tribute to those taking on the challenging and often dangerous work to prevent such violence.
In 2019, the number of rape cases reported in Somalia was 744, of which 241 were confirmed as cases of CRSV that targeted women and girls. However, the vast majority of survivors of conflict-related sexual violence do not report such violence due to fear and cultural stigma, and therefore, it remains an under-reported crime. In Somalia, some 3,000 victims and survivors of sexual assault and gender-based violence, including CRSV, received medical and health assistance last year, and some 5,700 received psychological assistance.
“Conflict-related sexual violence inflicts deep personal wounds, and remains a violation of the human rights of the victims. It also scars the fabric of society and the country and has no place in the modern, emerging Somalia” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
A direct outcome of the COVID-19 pandemic in Somalia has been an increased burden on health services and first responders, potentially increasing the risk to service providers and victims and survivors of CRSV. In addition, COVID-19 has had a detrimental impact on aspects of the rule of law, including access to justice, with the reporting of crimes made more difficult. For example, Somalia’s Attorney-General’s Office has said that the suspension of court work during the pandemic has resulted in zero convictions for sexual crimes since April. The UN envoy emphasized that “those working on CRSV deserve continuing support from national and international partners to ensure the resources needed are available to fight CRSV, and appropriate CRSV measures are integrated into the COVID-19 response.”
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/49961-un-calls-more-action-eliminate-conflict-related-sexual-violence-somalia




Date: 16 June 2020
Title: Joint Statement on Djibouti Talks
Content: 16 June 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners (listed below) welcome the dialogue between President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed ‘Farmajo’ and President Muse Bihi Abdi, hosted by President Ismail Omar Guelleh of Djibouti, and attended by Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali. We commend the regional support, and engagement that led to the talks.
 
We welcome the meeting as an important step in strengthening communication and fostering understanding, and encourage the technical committee named by the principals to deliver tangible benefits for their people.  
 
We welcome the commitment of the two leaders to continue the dialogue.

*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy,  Kenya, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/49566-joint-statement-djibouti-talks




Date: 16 June 2020
Title: 11-year-old boy wins US$1,000 in Somali-language COVID-19 video competition
Content: 16 June 2020



The winners of a two-month Somali-language COVID-19 video competition were finally revealed online today, with the US$1,000 first prize going to a short video on some of the best ways to avoid infection produced by a schoolboy in Qardho, Puntland and his older sister.
Abdijabar Dahir and his sister made the video while he was stuck at home after COVID-19 forced local schools to close. Instead of going outside to play with friends – and so risk bringing the virus back to his elderly grandparents at home – Abdijabar decided to make this video to show other children how to stay safe.
Organized by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the competition was launched so that people of all ages could use their creative talents to help spread accurate COVID-19 information online, both within Somalia and among Somali-speaking communities abroad.
Entrants were asked to send short videos on how to prevent the disease, based on up-to-date information provided on the country’s first Somali-language COVID-19 website: www.kahortagacorona.gov.so.
More than 20 videos were submitted from across Somalia. They were assessed by three celebrity judges – cartoonist Amin Amir, musician Aar Maanta and poet Naima Abwaan Qorane – based on the number of views and shares as well as their artistic flair.
“I was impressed by the creativity and the energy of young people who took part in this competition,” said Naima Abwaan Qorane. “Although, the competition has now finished, more people are watching the videos and benefiting from the health messages they carry. It has generated important online discussion and we should continue to spread the word until we defeat this deadly virus.”
“Thanks to the entries in this competition, which have been seen by almost 1 million people on our Facebook page alone, UNDP has been able to reach new audiences with potentially life-saving advice on COVID-19,” said Jocelyn Mason, Resident Representative for UNDP Somalia. “Our fantastic judges helped push the message out even further and we are very grateful for their support throughout.”
The winner of the US$1,000 first prize was a young boy and his siblings who showed how people can protect themselves from the virus through simple actions like washing hands with soap for 20 seconds. The video also taught people how to produce homemade facemasks.
The second prize of UD$500 was won by the story of a couple who had to cancel their wedding due to the coronavirus, while third place and US$300 went to a movie on how the virus can disproportionately affect disabled people.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/50123-11-year-old-boy-wins-us1000-somali-language-covid-19-video-competition




Date: 15 June 2020
Title: Statement on Fostering Consensus and Reconciliation
Content: 15 June 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners (listed below) welcome the proposal by President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed ‘Farmajo’ on 14 June to convene a meeting between the Federal Government of Somalia and all five Federal Member State Presidents and the Governor of Benadir Region (Mogadishu), to be preceded by an initial virtual meeting.  We commend this initiative to strengthen cooperation and foster consensus.
We call upon Somalia’s leaders to seize this opportunity to agree a way forward on pressing national priorities, including elections, for the benefit of all Somali people.  We acknowledge other recent efforts by the FGS and FMS representatives that helped lay the foundations for this dialogue.
We urge the rapid organisation, without delay, of the virtual and in-person meetings announced today.
We welcome continued efforts at dialogue, reconciliation and compromise among political leaders.  We further welcome the pursuit of solutions to political differences without violence and in a spirit of pragmatism and inclusivity, including in Jubaland.
We look forward to witnessing accelerated progress on Somalia’s national priorities through the renewed cooperation of its leaders, and stand ready to support efforts that promote inclusive politics and preserve the unity of the country.
*African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Egypt, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Ireland, Japan, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey,  Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, United Nations.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/49449-statement-fostering-consensus-and-reconciliation




Date: 07 June 2020
Title: Un Welcomes Federal Government of Somalia’s Recent Anti-corruption Steps
Content: 07 June 2020
Mogadishu – The United Nations in Somalia welcomes the measures recently announced by the Federal Government of Somalia to tackle corruption.
The Somali Government’s cabinet recently endorsed the National Anti-Corruption Strategy (NACS) intended to fight corruption; strengthen the integrity of institutions; build a merit-based, professional civil service; ensure the transparency of public finance management; and promote a culture of accountability.
The FGS also announced its intent to join and sign the UN Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC), the world’s only legally-binding universal anti-corruption instrument, and a key instrument to sustain, manage and track countries’ fight against corruption.  In addition, the FGS ratified the African Union Convention on Preventing and Combating Corruption (AUPCC), which was signed in 2006 but had not been ratified up until now.
“We welcome the Somali Government’s commitment to fight corruption, enable fair access to resources and opportunities, and build trust in public institutions,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“These are important steps and the United Nations in Somalia encourages all branches of the Federal Government and Federal Member States to take further measures to protect and expand the transparency, integrity and accountability of the management of public finances and resources," he added. "We look forward to active implementation of these commitments including advancing the legal and institutional framework to counter corruption, along with robust enforcement and punitive measures."
The United Nations in Somalia remains committed to support the implementation of the NACS, as well as the process leading up to the ratification of the UNCAC, and commends the Federal Government for these steps to tackle corruption.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/48709-un-welcomes-federal-government-somalia%E2%80%99s-recent-anti-corruption-steps




Date: 05 June 2020
Title: Somalia Flood Response Plan to assist hundreds of thousands in 29 districts
Content: 05 June 2020
Mogadishu, 5 June 2020 - Humanitarian partners in Somalia formally released the 2020 Somalia Flood Response Plan. The Plan, the draft of which has served as the basis for response since flooding began, outlines support to the Federal Government and member states to meet the needs of nearly a million people affected by the Gu’ seasonal rains.
Since April, the floods caused widespread displacement, death as well as destruction of infrastructure and property in 29 districts across the country. Of the 918,667 people affected, 415,000 were displaced from their homes. At least 29 people have been killed.
Humanitarian agencies have broadened and scaled-up their flood response in close coordination with the Federal Government of Somalia and member states. The flood response plan seeks US$59.85 million to deliver life-saving assistance over three months.
The plan includes delivery of shelter and non-food assistance as well as water and sanitation assistance to 400,000 people, rehabilitate damaged communal infrastructure including site maintenance in 277 IDP settlements, provide immediate food assistance to 200,000 people in flood-affected areas, and provide health and preventive services to 300,000 people; among other activities.
With existing resources, humanitarian partners are responding and have delivered food, clean water, emergency shelter, nutrition and medical supplies to flood-affected communities; reaching 255,000 people so far.
The flooding comes at a time when Somalia is already struggling with the worst locust infestation in 25 years and surging COVID-19 numbers; creating a triple threat.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/48594-somalia-flood-response-plan-assist-hundreds-thousands-29-districts




Date: 02 June 2020
Title: COVID-19 ventilators provided to help Somalia fight pandemic
Content: 02 June 2020
Mogadishu – Ventilators to treat COVID-19 patients are being supplied by IOM, the International Organization for Migration, to help thousands of Somali’s affected by the disease.
The ventilators, donated to the Federal Government of Somalia (FGS), and funded by the multi-donor Somalia Humanitarian Fund (SHF), will be used to set up an intensive care unit at the De Martino Hospital, the main public hospital in the country’s capital designated by the country’s Ministry of Health to treat COVID-19 cases .
The donation comes against the backdrop of daily increases in number of COVID-19 cases in Somalia. So far over 1,976 people have tested positive and nearly 80 have died. The country has the second highest number of positive cases in East and Horn of Africa. The FGS has in place a health taskforce to fight the disease. It suspended all international and domestic flights, and established isolation facilities to try and mitigate exposure to the infection, when the first case was reported on March 16.
Somalia’s health system infrastructure remains extremely fragile. There are only nine ventilators in the hospital that will receive the donation, insufficient to face a major outbreak.
“With this donation, hospital capacity will be strengthened to save lives, protect its workers and provide better healthcare to those in critical conditions due to the virus,” said H.E Dr. Fawziya Abikar Nur, Minister for Health and Human Services. During the handover ceremony held at the hospital today (02 June)in Mogadishu, the Minister added: “We appreciate the crucial support provided by IOM, SHF and all other partners  working with the Federal Government of Somalia to contain the spread COVID-19 and to provide life-saving treatment to our people.”
With the SHF funding, IOM is also providing medical specialists, and donating medical equipment such as personal protective equipment, including masks and gloves, to help the government’s COVID-19 response.
Due to the large population of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Somalia—2.6 million  in displacement camps across the country, half of them in Mogadishu—the pandemic poses a substantial threat.
“IDPs are among the most vulnerable if there is a COVID-19 outbreak in a settlement,” said the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Mr. Adam Abdelmoula. “The conditions in IDP camps, including the lack of sanitation and WASH facilities, threat of evictions and lack of access to health care facilities, could create a dangerous environment that would accelerate the spread of the virus.”
The UN in Somalia is committed to work with the authorities to ensure the needs of the most vulnerable groups are addressed. This includes immediate assistance, such as food and cash distribution, and longer-term support, such as providing livelihood opportunities and strengthening the social protection networks.
The De Martino Hospital in Mogadishu provides free health care to IDPs and other vulnerable groups. According to Director of Hospital Dr Abdirizak Yusuf Ahmed:
“This hospital is one of the only health facilities in Mogadishu that is accessible for people without resources. If we want to beat COVID-19 in Somalia everyone should have equal access to treatment.”
As the leading UN agency for border control and psychosocial care, IOM is conducting capacity building training on COVID-19 prevention and treatment and distributing medical equipment, supplies and hygiene kits. IOM is also deploying Somali expatriate medical experts to fill gaps in health facilities across the country.
Just before the Eid festivities ending Ramadan, IOM launched #SomaliaResponds in partnership with the Ministry of Health, an individual giving campaign to raise funds and support the De Martino Hospital and other medical facilities in Somalia. The goal is to raise USD 100,000 to buy the necessary equipment and supplies to meet the needs of those affected by the disease.
“IOM will continue supporting the health authorities in Somalia to ensure that no one is left behind in the COVID-19 response,” said Richard Danziger, Chief of Mission for IOM Somalia.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/48129-covid-19-ventilators-provided-help-somalia-fight-pandemic




Date: 29 May 2020
Title: Statement on the abduction and killing of NGO health workers
Content: 29 May 2020
UNICEF Somalia statement on the abduction and killing of NGO health workers
29 May 2020 - We are shocked and saddened by the unnecessary abduction and killing of the 7 health workers and one civilian at a health center run by our implementing partner, Zamzam Foundation, in Gololey village, South Somalia.  Our heartfelt condolences go out to their families and co-workers. Attacks on health workers is a violation of international law and must not be tolerated. Health workers in Somalia often risk their lives every day working tirelessly to help mothers and babies stay healthy – heroes working on the frontlines. At a time when Somalia is facing threats on many fronts, including COVID-19, this act is reprehensible and we call on relevant authorities to conduct a full and thorough investigation.
Link to original statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/48336-statement-abduction-and-killing-ngo-health-workers




Date: 23 May 2020
Title: UN WISHES PEACEFUL AND SAFE EID-AL-FITR TO ALL SOMALIS
Content: 23 May 2020
Mogadishu – The United Nations family in Somalia extends its warm congratulations to all Somalis on the occasion of Eid-al-Fitr.
“The United Nations wishes a peaceful and safe Eid-al-Fitr to the people of Somalia as we come to the end of the holy month of Ramadan, a time for celebration and togetherness,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“It has been very encouraging to see the solidarity and connectedness expressed by so many throughout the past month, amid the COVID-19 response,” he added. “And we look forward to this continuing as people celebrate Eid in a spirit of goodwill and reconciliation, while observing health safety guidelines – Ciid Wanaagsan.”
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/47209-un-wishes-peaceful-and-safe-eid-al-fitr-all-somalis




Date: 17 May 2020
Title: Statement by the UNFPA Representative for Somalia Mr. Anders Thomsen on the rape of a four-year-old girl in Mogadishu
Content: 17 May 2020
Mogadishu, 17 May 2020 – We strongly condemn the rape of a four-year-old girl in Madina, Mogadishu on 14 May 2020 and denounce this gruesome act of sexual violence.
It is with great concern that we continue to see a number of similar cases in Somalia. UNFPA stands with the young girl’s family and we fully call on the authorities for the speedy investigation of this case and we call for the proper judicial process to take its course.
UNFPA reiterates its call for the speedy passage into law of the Sexual Offences Bill, which has been pending adoption by the Parliament. The law will be vital in preventing and criminalizing all sexual offences. UNFPA Somalia calls for the strengthening of protection systems as women and girls continue to be at high risk of experiencing gender-based.
Today and every day, let us stand up for the human rights, safety and dignity of every woman and girl everywhere.
Link to original statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/46123-statement-unfpa-representative-somalia-mr-anders-thomsen-rape-four-year-old-girl-mogadishu




Date: 08 May 2020
Title: Conflict and heavy floods force tens of thousands of people to flee their homes in Somalia, amidst COVID-19 threat
Content: 08 May 2020
Heavy flooding, conflict, a crippled economy, impending desert locust swarms and the exponential spread of COVID-19 are threatening the safety and welfare of Somalia’s 2.6 million internally displaced people (IDPs.
UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, fears these multiple, compounding emergencies will lead to devastating consequences unless there is a strong and coordinated response from the international community, national and local Somali authorities and humanitarian actors to meet the massive humanitarian needs.
Since the start of this year, more than 220,000 Somalis have become internally displaced, including 137,000 due to conflict. Natural and climate-related disasters including drought and resulting lack of livelihoods and floods are additional complex and interlinked drivers of displacement.
In South and Central Somalia, flash floods and the beginnings of riverine flooding caused by the seasonal Gurains have already displaced an estimated 90,000 with additional displacement expected, worsening significant pre-existing humanitarian needs faced by IDPs and host communities. If current trends continue, this year’s rains give every indication that they could pose the same catastrophic threat as the Deyr rains of 2019, which led to more than 400,000 people being forced to flee their homes. Swarms of desert locusts, the most destructive migratory insect in the world, threaten to decimate crop yields and cause widespread food shortages post the Gu rains.
Earlier this week, UNHCR and the Government of Somalia airlifted emergency assistance, including jerry cans, soap, blankets, sleeping mats, kitchen sets and plastic sheets, to help over 8,000 people in Baidoa, Bardheere and Qardho. A second airlift delivering aid in Qardho, Bardheere, Beletweyn, and Berdale is set to take place as early as today, with UNHCR’s assistance expected to reach a total 37,000 individuals.
In March and April, armed operations against Al Shabab resumed in Lower Shabelle, resulting in more than 50,000 people being forced to flee their homes. Communities were directly exposed to crossfire and mortar attacks in their villages, and roadside explosions while in flight. Recruitment of children, gender-based violence including rape, and arbitrary arrest where also reported. In Gedo, Jubaland State, fighting between various parties to the conflict in the region also forced an estimated 40,000 people to flee their homes in Belet Xawoo in early March.
UNHCR believes the humanitarian situation will worsen as COVID-19 further spreads. Most of the 2.6 million IDPs in Somalia live in overcrowded settlements and many, especially those newly displaced, live in makeshift shelters made of plastic bags, cardboards and sticks. Physical and social distancing is close to impossible, and there is scarcely enough clean water for drinking, let alone hand-washing. Conditions are ripe for widespread viral transmission.
The Government of Somalia has initiated COVID-19 testing across the country. However, decades of conflict, together with a global shortage of testing kits, has left the country’s health infrastructure in a precarious position to respond should the virus spread rapidly. Despite Somalia having 928 confirmed cases of COVID-19 among the general population, there has been only one confirmed case amongst the IDP population so far.
Many Somali IDPs have seen their incomes plummet as COVID-19 prevention measures have led to job losses or reductions in working hours, particularly for daily wage workers and people working in markets. UNHCR has observed that refugees are amongst the first to lose their jobs. At the same time, food prices are rising while remittances, a lifeline for millions of Somalis, are in stark decline.
UNHCR urges the international community to come forward with further funding for humanitarian agencies and the Government of Somalia in this time of crisis. Yesterday, as part of the wider UN appeal, UNHCR urged States, the private sector and individual donors to provide US$745 million for our COVID-19 appeal to protect and assist displaced populations around the world.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/45235-conflict-and-heavy-floods-force-tens-thousands-people-flee-their-homes-somalia-amidst-covid




Date: 05 May 2020
Title: UNHCR provides critical assistance to flood victims in Somalia amidst the COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 05 May 2020
UNHCR provides critical assistance to flood victims in Somalia amidst the COVID-19 pandemic The Federal Government of Somalia (FGS) and UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency have airlifted vital humanitarian assistance to approximately 8,100 Somalis affected by flooding in South-West, Jubaland and Puntland States this past week.
UNHCR is one of the first responders to lead delivery of emergency kits that include jerry cans, soap, blankets, sleeping mats, kitchen sets and plastic sheets to Baidoa, Bardheere and Qardho. During the first phase of the airlift, the FGS provided a cargo plane to deliver essential items from the UNHCR warehouses in Mogadishu to Garowe (destined for Qardho) and Bardheere, while UNHCR airlifted the supplies to Baidoa. The second phase of the airlift will commence later this week and target 17,000 people in affected areas including Qardho, Bardheere, Beletweyn, and Berdale.
“We are witnessing multiple emergencies in Somalia, with an exponential rise of COVID-19, Gu flash floods and riverine flooding.” said Johann Siffointe, UNHCR’s Representative in Somalia. “These emergencies must be understood as mutually compounding, requiring ongoing strong cooperation between the international community and governments at the national and sub-national levels.”
The 2020 riverine flooding and flash floods caused by Gu season rains are giving every indication that they will adversely impact Somalia at similar levels to the Deyr rains of 2019 when more than 400,000 people were forcibly displaced. So far this year, the regions that have been hit hardest include Bari, Banadir, Hiraan, Middle Shabelle, Galgaduud, Mudug, Gedo, Lower Juba and Middle Juba. The current multiple emergencies are exacerbating the living conditions of Somalia’s 2.6 million internally displaced persons who are among the country’s most vulnerable groups. UNHCR’s response to the latest comes amidst the raising number of COVID-19 cases in Somalia.
As part of its COVID-19 response, UNHCR is working in collaboration with the government, UN sister agencies and implementing partners to mitigate the spread of the virus. Activities rolled out by UNHCR include support to the government with the provision of isolation, monitoring, and treatment tents, community awareness raising and engagement, protection monitoring, support to health care centers with medical products and WASH facilities, provision of hygiene products and services, cash assistance to vulnerable families, livelihood programs and advocacy for a nationwide moratorium on evictions. UNHCR is mobilizing additional resources for non-food items and emergency shelter to respond to the ongoing needs.
Link to original press release.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/44277-unhcr-provides-critical-assistance-flood-victims-somalia-amidst-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 05 May 2020
Title: Statement by the Deputy Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, on the crash of plane carrying humanitarian cargo
Content: 05 May 2020
Mogadishu, 5 May 2020 – Last night I was informed that a commercial plane carrying humanitarian cargo for an international nongovernmental organisation crashed killing six persons on board on approach to Bardale, approximately 55 km northwest of Baidoa town in South West State, Somalia.
I am deeply saddened and troubled by this unfortunate incident. Too often, the women and men who risk their lives and put the wellbeing of others before theirs to support humanitarian operations are not recognized for the contribution they make to aid Somalis in need. Our thoughts are with their families and loved ones during this terrible time. They made the ultimate sacrifice, carrying out the noble task of helping others. May they rest in peace.
As the UN family, we will do all we can to assist the federal and South West State authorities to understand the cause of this tragedy. We will continue to follow up on this important development.
Link to the original statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/44380-statement-deputy-special-representative-un-secretary-general-resident-and-humanitarian




Date: 03 May 2020
Title: UN ENVOY URGES RESPECT FOR FREEDOM OF THE PRESS IN SOMALIA
Content: 03 May 2020
Mogadishu – On the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, the United Nations envoy to Somalia today called for Somali journalists to be able to perform their work freely.
“The media have a vital role to play in Somali society, from coverage of its political space to giving a voice to the vulnerable and marginalized. They need to be able to carry out their important work free from violence, harassment, detention, persecution, intimidation and censorship,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“This would be the case at any time, but especially in this period as Somalia prepares for its national ‘one person, one vote’ elections. This is an historic occasion that requires a dynamic, free and safe media sector able to report without fear or favour,” he added. “As the country responds to the COVID-19 pandemic, the need for the media to provide accurate and timely news coverage is also crucial for helping raise awareness which can save lives.”
World Press Freedom Day aims to celebrate and defend the fundamental principles of press freedom. It is observed annually on 3 May, and the theme of this year’s Day is "Journalism without Fear or Favour," with the following sub-themes: safety of women and men journalists and media workers, independent and professional journalism free from political and commercial influence, and gender equality in all aspects of the media.
 
The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of which Somalia is a signatory, establishes that freedom of expression is a fundamental human right.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/44080-un-envoy-urges-respect-freedom-press-somalia




Date: 28 April 2020
Title: RECONCILIATION PROCESSES IN FEDERAL MEMBER STATES
Content: 28 April 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* welcome the dialogue between the Jubaland administration and the leadership of the Jubaland Council for Change which culminated in a reconciliation agreement signed on 23 April.
The agreement represents a helpful step towards resolving the disputes that emerged from the Jubaland electoral process in August 2019, which left the communities and political stakeholders divided.
Disputed electoral outcomes in Jubaland and other Federal Member States over the past 18 months underscore the importance of credible electoral processes in which Somalis may choose their leaders in accordance with the Provisional Federal Constitution and Federal Member State constitutions.
The partners encourage all Jubaland stakeholders, including political leaders, communities and traditional leaders to build upon the 23 April agreement, implement the follow-up steps, and continue their constructive dialogue.
The partners welcome the willingness expressed by the Jubaland stakeholders to engage the Federal Government of Somalia, and that Jubaland is ready for full collaboration with the Federal Government.
International partners urge the Jubaland administration and the FGS leadership to peacefully resolve their continuing differences through dialogue, and to de-escalate the ongoing tensions in Gedo region.
The partners stand ready to provide the necessary support to the FGS and all FMS leaders as they strive for reconciliation and cooperation to advance national interests.  In this regard, partners also welcome other recent reconciliation initiatives, in particular in South West State and Galmudug, aimed at forming inclusive, unified state-level administrations.  We urge that these efforts continue throughout Somalia for the benefit of the people.
We call on all Somalis to foster unity and reconciliation as they begin the Holy month of Ramadan while facing not only the unprecedented menace from COVID-19 but also the continuing threat from terrorism.
* Austria, Belgium, Denmark, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Sweden, United Kingdom,  United States, and the United Nations.
Link to original press release.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/43538-reconciliation-processes-federal-member-states




Date: 27 April 2020
Title: UNFPA and WHO partner to strengthen testing capacity for COVID-19 in Somalia
Content: 27 April 2020
Garowe, 27 April 2020 – Yesterday, the first batch of COVID-19 testing results were announced in Garowe, Puntland. A total of 11 tests had been conducted with five being positive.  This remarkable milestone is a result of  UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, and the World Health Organization (WHO) who worked together to enable laboratory capacity to be in place in Garowe under the leadership of the Ministry of Health to ensure needed testing capacity for COVID-19.
The achievement was made possible by adding specialized capacity to the existing Bureau of Forensic Science, which was established over the past three years through the support of UNFPA to allow analysis of DNA samples in real-time to be used as evidence in sexual assault cases.  Based on the already existing expert and technical laboratory capacity, WHO and UNFPA were able to further support this laboratory with essential supplies and diagnostic kits to rapidly establish its molecular testing capacity for the detection of RNA samples from suspected cases of COVID-19 in Puntland.
“UNFPA is delighted to support the Government, hand-in-hand with WHO, to enable the testing COVID-19. We took rapid joint action to repurpose the already-existing forensic laboratory so that it is not only able to bring justice on gender-based violence victims but also to help fight the COVID-19 pandemic,” said UNFPA Somalia Representative Anders Thomsen.
Mr. Thomsen pledged UNFPA’s continued support to the fight against COVID-19 by providing support to public awareness-raising, disease prevention, and protection of frontline health workers, including midwives.
WHO will also continue to provide support for quality assurance as well as other supplies and laboratory reagents in order to maintain its current bio-safety level required to test emerging and novel respiratory pathogen such as the  COVID-19 at the Bureau of Forensic Science.
WHO Representative to Somalia, Dr. Mamunur Rahman Malik said:
“this is yet another example to showcase how we are working as One UN to fight against a common enemy.  This partnership shows our shared responsibility and solidarity to early detect COVID-19 cases and save lives. This also shows how both WHO and UNFPA respect and value the need for advancing its common health agenda in the country through unity, partnerships, collaboration, and effective coordination between the agencies. As the virus spreads, so does our unity to defeat it.”
The Bureau of Forensic Science in Puntland is now poised to scale up testing of suspected cases of COVID-19 in Somalia.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/43319-unfpa-and-who-partner-strengthen-testing-capacity-covid-19-somalia




Date: 24 April 2020
Title: UN EXTENDS WARMEST WISHES ON START TO RAMADAN
Content: 24 April 2020
The United Nations in Somalia extends its warmest wishes to all Somalis as the holy month of Ramadan begins.
“The holy month of Ramadan is a special time for solidarity and kindness; reflection and renewal. With the start of Ramadan in 2020, we are all acutely aware that Somalia – and the entire world – faces a myriad of challenges in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic. During this difficult period, the values of this occasion – centred around peace, compassion and an end to suffering – are ever more important,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
As Somalis observe the start of Ramadan with their loved ones, within the constraints posed by the ongoing pandemic, the UN family in Somalia joins them in reflecting upon these enduring values, and remains steadfast in its solidarity and support.
Ramadan Mubarak, Ramadan wanaagsan!
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/43162-un-extends-warmest-wishes-start-ramadan




Date: 23 April 2020
Title: Somalia Covid-19 Preparedness and Response Plan Launched
Content: 23 April 2020
Today, the United Nations and partners in Somalia launched the Somalia COVID-19 Preparedness and Response Plan (CPRP) to address to the immediate humanitarian impact and socio-economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country.
“The impact of COVID-19 is bound to be devastating,” said Mr. Adam Abdelmoula, Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia. “The priority now is to avert large-scale community transmission by scaling up risk communications, testing, contact tracing and management of cases.”
From one case confirmed on 16 March, COVID-19 cases in Somalia spiked to 286 as of 22 April, including 15 health workers. Within this period, the pandemic has impacted on the economy and livelihoods; imports have declined, commodity prices have increased, remittances have declined and school closures in March left about 1 million children without access to education. The CPRP provides a six-to-nine-month framework for humanitarian and development agencies to adapt their programmes to the changing context and scale up interventions to mitigate the impact of COVID-19.
The focus is on the ‘nexus’ between humanitarian, development and peacebuilding work. Implementation will be aligned to support the Federal Government of Somalia COVID-19 preparedness and response plans.
“We are working closely with the Federal Government of Somalia, Federal Member States and all our partners, to address this unprecedented crisis,” said Mr. Abdelmoula. “I urge donors to urgently support this plan and frontload their contributions to enable aid agencies rapidly scale up the response to COVID-19.”
The CPRP seeks US$501 million. It gives priority to the most vulnerable Somalis including 2.6 million internally displaced persons (IDPs) who live in more than 2,000 overcrowded settlements with limited access to healthcare, water and sanitation services, and livelihoods.
The plan considers the elderly – approximately 2.7 per cent of the population – and the urban poor as people who could be worst affected by COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic comes as Somalia grapples with a protracted humanitarian crisis, brought on by years of conflict, climate-related emergencies and widespread poverty. This year, disease outbreaks, anticipated flooding and a locust infestation will aggravate the crisis further.
Download the CPRP here.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/43216-somalia-covid-19-preparedness-and-response-plan-launched




Date: 12 April 2020
Title: Joint Statement on COVID-19
Content: 12 April 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* express their solidarity with the Somali people and government at all levels in facing the global pandemic of the coronavirus (COVID-19).  They commend the Somali authorities for the measures they have taken to date to contain the spread of the virus, including awareness raising, quarantine measures, and social distancing.
They note that the spread of the virus is a universal challenge, and one that must be faced together.  They underscore that this is a time to unite to confront this unprecedented challenge.  The response will require unity, and for conflict and violence to be set aside.  The partners recall the appeal of the United Nations Secretary-General for a global ceasefire and lend their strong support to this call.  They strongly encourage all parties and communities to end conflict.  They call on al-Shabaab and other groups to cease acts of violence and terrorism and to enable assistance to reach all communities in need.
The partners urge the FGS and all FMS leaders to resume without further delay constructive collaboration to advance national priorities and to collaborate to mitigate the threat of the virus. They noted that legitimate political differences will require dialogue and the willingness to forge consensus. All Somalia’s leaders, in the federal government, federal member states and Parliament must continue their important work, using web-based meeting options if necessary.
The virus requires unity not only within countries but between neighbours and the region.  The partners encourage Somalia and the countries of the region to reduce infection, reinforce health systems, and strengthen community resilience, as well as to keep key trade routes open, and facilitate vital private financial flows.  The partners commend the initiative taken by the African Union Commission Chairperson in convening an emergency ministerial meeting on COVID-19 on 22 February 2020, and the declaration of the Summit of the IGAD Heads of State and Government on 30 March 2020.
The social and economic effects of COVID-19 are far reaching, and further compound the debilitating consequences of conflict, desert locust infestation, droughts and perennial flooding that impact the most vulnerable populations.  The partners call on Somali authorities and private land owners to suspend evictions of displaced persons for the entire duration of the COVID-19 response.
The partners welcome the development of Somalia’s COVID-19 Response Plan and appeal for all stakeholders to support it and align and coordinate their assistance with its priorities.
The partners thank the Federal Government of Somalia for enabling operations and international support to continue, and reaffirm their commitment to assist Somalia to respond to the impact of COVID-19.

*  African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United Nations, United States.
Link to original press statement
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/40798-joint-statement-covid-19




Date: 07 April 2020
Title: Statement on responses to rape and sexual assault
Content: 07 April 2020
UNICEF is horrified and appalled by recent rapes against very young children in Somalia. These rapes, widely reported in the media, are mortifying to decent people everywhere. We sincerely hope that these inhumane acts, and the thousands of others that go unnoticed every year in Somalia, are the catalyst for change.
We implore politicians, religious, customary, male, female and youth leaders to take notice and mobilise your parliamentary representatives to bring the Sexual Offences Bill into law. The Sexual Offences Bill remains stagnated in parliament since September 2019.
We also remind everyone that survivors of rape and/or sexual offences, must be provided confidentiality and every effort should be made to ensure their anonymity is preserved. Confidential provision of services:
While our community is stunned by this abuse, it is essential to avoid circulating identifying information regarding survivors such as names, photographs, locations or ages in media. The best interests of the survivor, who has undergone the most horrifying and traumatic incident of her/his life, should be the only guiding principle in these matters. Life-saving care and support is the only priority in the days immediately following a rape incident.
We place our faith and trust in Somali’s trained and committed health and social work professionals who are working tirelessly to ensure the best possible outcomes for children who are abused in this heinous way.
We encourage everyone to show solidarity and support survivors of rape and sexual violence by coming together to enact the Sexual Offences Bill.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/41527-statement-responses-rape-and-sexual-assault




Date: 05 April 2020
Title: Statement by UNFPA Representative for Somalia, Mr. Anders Thomsen, on the rape of two young girls
Content: 05 April 2020
UNFPA Somalia strongly condemns the abduction and rape of the two young girls, aged three and four as they were playing on 30 March 2020 in Afgoye town, Lower Shebelle, Somalia. The girls have been hospitalized in critical condition.
UNFPA Somalia stands with the girls and their families and calls for recourse for proper judicial process to take its course. We also reiterate our call for the speedy passage into law the Sexual Offences Bill which has been pending adoption in the country’s Parliament. The law will be vital in preventing and dealing with culprits of sexual offenses.
UNFPA Somalia calls for the strengthening of protection systems as women and girls continue to be at high risk of experiencing gender-based violence and the threat of harmful practices including female genital mutilation and child, early and forced marriages.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/40092-statement-unfpa-representative-somalia-mr-anders-thomsen-rape-two-young-girls




Date: 04 April 2020
Title: On International Mine Day, UN envoy highlights need for collaboration to eliminate threat
Content: 04 April 2020
On the occasion of the International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, the United Nations envoy to Somalia today highlighted the need for collaboration to eliminate the threat of mines to Somalis and Somalia's development.
“Explosive hazards and improvised explosive devices in Somalia not only endanger the lives of civilians but also undermine state-building and economic development - areas in which Somalia has made commendable progress,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“In the midst of a global health emergency, we are reminded of the importance of working together to eradicate dangers and create safe environments in which communities can thrive.  Just as in our efforts to combat the COVID-19 virus, the United Nations remains committed to supporting Somalia in its efforts to rid the country of the threat of explosive hazards.  We must unite to save lives and ‘give life back’ to local communities.”
The theme of this year’s observance is ‘Together for Mine Action: Give Life Back.’ The Day aims to promote the need for continued efforts to develop national mine-action capacities in countries where mines and explosive remnants of war constitute a serious threat to the safety, health and lives of the civilian population, or an impediment to social and economic development.
Since 2018, there have been 3,279 casualties due to explosive remnants of war and improvised explosive device incidents in Somalia. The Federal Government is developing a national plan of action for landmine survivors and persons with disabilities to address these threats.
The UN Mine Action Service (UNMAS) is working with national and international partners to clear explosive hazards, deliver explosive ordnance risk education, raise awareness at the community level, enhance national mine action capabilities, and support government efforts to serve survivors of landmine and explosive remnants of war and persons with disabilities.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/39926-international-mine-day-un-envoy-highlights-need-collaboration-eliminate-threat




Date: 04 April 2020
Title: UN Confirms Private Contractor Tests Positive for COVID-19 Virus
Content: 04 April 2020
Mogadishu –  The United Nations in Somalia confirms today that an international employee of a private company operating under contract to the UN has been diagnosed with the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19).
The individual is employed by a private commercial firm operating within Aden Abdulle International Airport (AAIA). In accordance with this firm’s policies, the individual was isolated hours after his arrival in mid-March and remains in quarantine at the contractor’s facilities at AAIA.
The coronavirus case was announced earlier today by the Somali Minister of Health, Dr. Fawziya Abikar, based on test results provided by the United Nations.
UN medical staff remain in communication with the Somali Ministry of Health, and contact tracing is underway to identify anyone who may have had exposure to the individual prior to his quarantine.
The United Nations family stands firmly alongside Somalia in its fight against COVID-19, and continues to support its government and people through the World Health Organization (WHO), UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), World Food Programme (WFP) and many other entities working together to combat the virus.
Link to original press statement
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/39999-un-confirms-private-contractor-tests-positive-covid-19-virus




Date: 31 March 2020
Title: Statement from the United Nations System in Somalia on its support to contain COVID-19
Content: 31 March 2020
Mogadishu  – Somalia, like many other countries in the world, is facing the unprecedented challenge of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.
“The UN family in Somalia stands shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of Somalia during this testing time. We will continue to support all efforts to address the immediate health and long-term socio-economic impact of COVID-19,” said James Swan, the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia. “We must all unite to prevent the spread of the virus. We need to pay particular attention to the most vulnerable in our communities, including internally displaced people, the infirm and the elderly.”
The United Nations appeals to everyone in Somalia to come together in this fight against the pandemic.
“We echo the call of the Secretary-General for an immediate global ceasefire to put aside violence, mistrust, hostilities and animosity, and to focus on battling the virus, not each other”, said Mr. Swan. “This is essential in order for life saving assistance to reach communities across the country. Here in Somalia, the United Nations calls for a cessation of acts of violence and terrorism so that all resources and support can be channeled to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.”
To reinforce the ongoing efforts to contain COVID-19 at the federal and state levels as well as limit the possibility of further spread of the virus, the United Nations has established system-wide operating, medical and support procedures. A task force has been established to ensure business continuity and agencies have developed a detailed preparedness and response plan in support of the Government’s efforts.
“Our robust support to Somalia continues,” said the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Adam Abdelmoula. “All agencies remain engaged and continue to deliver critical assistance to those most in need.”
The World Health Organization (WHO), the specialized UN agency for health, continues to support the Somali health sector by scaling up its operational readiness and response to COVID-19. WHO’s support has been essential to rapidly establish a mechanism for testing and confirmation of suspected cases, and isolating suspected cases to prevent onward transmission.
“The WHO is heavily engaged with the Somali health authorities for case findings, contact tracing, testing, isolation and containment activities with the intention of virus suppression and delaying patient surge,” said Dr. Mamunur Rahman Malik, the WHO Country Representative in Somalia. “We will continue to work as One UN and keep the country safe showing our solidarity, unity and partnership with the government.”
For its part, the United Nations Support Office in Somalia (UNSOS) continues to carry out its mandate to provide logistics support to the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), as well as elements of the Somalia security forces engaged in joint security operations with AMISOM. The UN COVID-19 Response Task Force Coordinator, UNSOS Director Amadu Kamara, is joining the Somali national task force for COVID-19 response. In this context, UNSOS and AMISOM were able to assist the Somali government to respond to the first suspected COVID-19 cases.
Other UN agencies and programmes are supporting the implementation of the COVID-19 response plan by providing technical expertise and logistics to the Federal Government and federal member states. Some of these are training health workers, providing equipment for isolation centres, including testing kits, personal protective gear, expanding early detection capabilities and scaling up hygiene responses. To address one of the most pressing needs, the UN’s World Food Programme plans to distribute two months’ worth of food rations in anticipation of the deteriorating situation.
“The world is facing an unprecedented crisis that requires a swift and decisive response. We, as the UN family, will continue working side by side with the Government to ensure the Somali people are protected, while still maintaining our regular life-saving activities that address the needs of the most vulnerable Somalis,” Mr Abdelmoula added.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/39489-statement-united-nations-system-somalia-its-support-contain-covid-19




Date: 27 March 2020
Title: UN in Somalia confirms that an employee of a commercial contractor has tested positive for the COVID-19 virus
Content: 27 March 2020
Mogadishu  – The United Nations in Somalia confirms that an employee of a commercial contractor engaged by the United Nations has been diagnosed with the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19).
The contractor has been in quarantine for eight days prior to diagnosis and medical professionals are interviewing the individual to trace contact with the individual.
 
The United Nations in Somalia takes the global COVID-19 pandemic seriously and, over the past weeks, has prepared operating, medical and support procedures for the possibility of such an incident occurring.  Our priorities are the care of the contractor and to prevent the further spread of the virus.
 
The UN, through the local office of the World Health Organization (WHO) has been working with the Somali authorities to prepare the country’s health systems to contain and mitigate any outbreak of the pandemic in Somalia.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/39250-un-somalia-confirms-employee-commercial-contractor-has-tested-positive-covid-19-virus




Date: 25 March 2020
Title: United Nations Congratulates Somalia on Reaching ‘Decision Point’ for Debt Relief
Content: 25 March 2020
The United Nations congratulates Somalia for reaching the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative’s (HIPC) ‘Decision Point’ for debt relief – an historic milestone on the country’s path to peace and prosperity.
“Achievement of the HIPC ‘Decision Point’ is a major step forward for Somalia’s economic progress, allowing the country to advance towards its long-term objective of inclusive economic growth and poverty reduction. All Somalis can be proud of this achievement,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
The ‘Decision Point’ is tribute and testament to the federal authorities’ impressive public financial management reforms,” he added. “It also reflects strong collaboration between the Federal Government and the Federal Member States, and sets a template for future collaboration in this and other areas.”
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank established the HIPC Initiative in 1996 to ensure that no poor country faces a debt burden exceeding its capacity to service and manage.
Reaching ‘Decision Point’ means that Somalia’s eligibility for debt relief is confirmed, and its relations with International Financial Institutions are fully normalized. Somalia will also qualify now for certain types of grant financing to meet its public finance and development needs, and for access to private sector financing instrument.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/39059-united-nations-congratulates-somalia-reaching-%E2%80%98decision-point%E2%80%99-debt-relief




Date: 08 March 2020
Title: Joint Statement on the Situation in Gedo
Content: 08 March 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* express grave concern at the build-up of security forces in the Gedo region of Jubaland, Somalia, and clashes in the vicinity of Belet Hawo on 2 March that have resulted in the displacement of civilians and casualties.
We urgently call upon all actors to exercise restraint, to reduce the presence of security forces in Gedo, and to avoid any actions that could spark violence. We note the importance of stability and good cooperation among Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia in their common border area where they have shared security interests.
We welcome the communication between President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed ‘Farmajo’ and President Uhuru Kenyatta on 5 March and encourage the leaders to continue to deescalate tensions, to cooperate on border security, and to form a joint committee to address issues of diplomacy and trade as they agreed. The partners regard the engagement between the leaders as a necessary step, and underscore the importance of continued direct communication between Somalia and Kenya. The partners thank the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) for the outreach and providing good offices; and urge continuation of this dialogue until lasting solutions are in place.
For the long-term stability and security of the border region and of Jubaland, the partners urge cooperation and dialogue between the Federal Government of Somalia (FGS) and Jubaland authorities in order to advance the fight against al-Shabaab. They call for any individuals accused of crimes or human rights violations to be arrested and subject to due process in accordance with the rule of law.
We underscore that full cooperation and dialogue between the FGS and all Federal Member States’ authorities is urgent and essential in order to combat al-Shabaab, resolve contentious issues, and achieve other national priorities such as securing the benefits from debt relief and holding timely national elections.

* - African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom, United States, United Nations.
Link to original statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/37345-joint-statement-situation-gedo




Date: 08 March 2020
Title: On International Women’s Day, UN applauds contribution of Somali women and encourages greater participation
Content: 08 March 2020
Mogadishu – On the occasion of International Women’s Day, the United Nations in Somalia applauded the role of Somali women in their country’s progress while also encouraging greater efforts to ensure their participation in all spheres of Somali society.
"Somali women have made important contributions as Somalia rebuilds and continues on its path to peace and stability," said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan. “They have demonstrated tremendous courage, strength and dedication in the face of many challenges, including protracted conflict, lack of security, natural disaster and political instability."
"Unfortunately, the security discourse around women too often labels them as victims, and rarely as active agents who are vital to improving the security situation for themselves and others. That must change," he added.
The theme of this year’s International Women’s Day is 'I am Generation Equality: Realizing Women’s Rights.' Ahead of Somalia’s forthcoming ‘one person, one vote’ elections, the United Nations in Somalia urges all Somali stakeholders, particularly the political leadership, to support women’s representation in politics and decision-making, and to guarantee that equality becomes a living reality for all Somalis, regardless of their gender. In this regard, the United Nations strongly supports the minimum 30 per cent women’s quota for representation in parliament.
The United Nations also encourages renewed attention by national leaders to the draft Sexual Offences Bill and Female Genital Mutilation Bill, as cornerstones for the protection of women’s rights in Somalia.
"Women’s equal rights, opportunities and participation are vital ingredients in realizing the Somali national development agenda," Mr. Swan said. "Only collective action by all, including people in power can make it happen."
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/38820-international-women%E2%80%99s-day-un-applauds-contribution-somali-women-and-encourages-greater




Date: 06 March 2020
Title: UNHCR Welcomes Somalia deposit of the Instruments of Ratification of the Kampala Convention
Content: 06 March 2020
UNHCR Welcomes Somalia deposit of the Instruments of Ratification of the Kampala Convention UNHCR, The UN Refugee Agency, welcomes Somalia’s official deposit of the Instruments of Ratification of the African Union Convention for the Protection of Internally Displaced Persons “the Kampala Convention” to the African Union Commission in Addis-Ababa (Ethiopia), according to the African Union standard procedures.
There are 2.6 million Somali women, girls, boys and men internally displaced from armed conflict and natural disaster. Today’s action is another signal of the strong commitment of the Government of Somalia to work towards the establishment of a conducive protection environment for the fourth largest IDP population in the world.
“IDPs are among the most disadvantaged and vulnerable people in Somalia. They face significant inequality leading to exclusion and lost opportunities. Poverty and rates of unemployment among IDPs are among the highest in the country,” said UNHCR Somalia Representative, Johann Siffointe. “This deposit of the instruments of ratification shows even more progress by the Somalia government to realize pledges made in December’s Global Refugee Forum focused on finding durable solutions for displaced citizens in the country.”
UNHCR stands ready to support the government of Somalia in the implementation of the Kampala Convention, including incorporating their obligations under this treaty into domestic law by enacting or amending relevant legislation on the protection of, and assistance to, internally displaced persons in line with international law obligations.
On 26 November 2019, Somali President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, “Farmaajo” signed the Kampala Convention, after being passed with a near-unanimous vote by parliament. Somalia is the 30th African Union Member State to ratify the convention since 2009. The Kampala Convention is the world’s first and only regional legally binding instrument for the protection and assistance of IDPs, who often face heightened risks, violations and sexual violence because of their displacement, while they struggle to access their rights and basic protection.
Link to original press release.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/43539-unhcr-welcomes-somalia-deposit-instruments-ratification-kampala-convention




Date: 25 February 2020
Title: Following enactment of federal electoral law, Somalia’s international partners urge all Somali stakeholders to work together to hold elections on time
Content: 25 February 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s federal electoral law has now been approved by the House of the People and was signed into law by the President on 20 February.  This law is part of the essential electoral legislative framework required so one-person-one-vote national elections that allow as many citizens as possible to vote can take place on time.
While this is an important step, more work needs to be done to address many outstanding questions necessary to implement the code. Somalia’s international partners* recognize the responsibility accorded to the National Independent Electoral Commission (NIEC) to implement the electoral law and stress the urgency of all Somali stakeholders – including the Federal Government of Somalia, Federal Member States, the Federal Parliament, and political parties – to cooperate with and support the NIEC as it embarks on the task of implementing the electoral law.
The partners recall their many discussions with the Speakers of both Houses of the Federal Parliament, as well as the NIEC, the President and the Prime Minister, during which they drew their attention to aspects of the law that need to be clarified.  These include the identification of constituencies and allocation of seats to the constituencies, identifying which seats in Parliament will be reserved for women to ensure a minimum 30 per cent representation, modalities for electing the seats allocated for Somalilanders, and the representation of residents of theBenadir region in the Parliament.  The partners call on the Federal Parliament, in collaboration with the NIEC, and in consultation with the Federal Government of Somalia, the Federal Member States and other stakeholders, to resolve these urgently.
The partners also consider the Political Parties Law as part of the essential legal framework required to enable elections to take place on time.  They therefore emphasize the importance of prioritizing consideration and adoption of the amendments to this law by the Federal Parliament.
The partners emphasize that the holding of credible elections for the Federal Parliament and the Federal President on time, in keeping with the Provisional Federal Constitution, is critical for Somalia’s political stability.
The partners emphasize the urgency of full cooperation between the Federal Government of Somalia and Federal Member States in order to achieve these and other national priorities.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, European Union, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom, United Nations and United States.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/36032-following-enactment-federal-electoral-law-somalia%E2%80%99s-international-partners-urge-all-somali




Date: 28 January 2020
Title: Joint Statement on Galmudug
Content: 28 January 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* are concerned about the developments in Galmudug State that have emerged during the final stage of the months-long effort towards forming a united and stable Galmudug Federal Member State through a reconciliation process and elections.
It is important that all the stakeholders remain focused on the need to participate in a process that will enjoy broad support and avoid the risk of instability and conflict.  This will require an inclusive approach, forged through dialogue, and will require flexibility on all sides.
The partners recognize that significant efforts have been made in this regard over the past seven months.  This has enabled agreements to be reached over the allocation of seats and we commend the willingness of communities to compromise and act in the greater interests of Galmudug state.
We call on all actors to remain engaged, to resolve their differences through dialogue, if necessary taking time to do so, and that they remain guided by the objective of a unified and stable Galmudug state and refrain from initiating alternative processes.  We urge the leadership of Galmudug’s regional assembly, the presidential candidates, Ahlu Sunna Wal Jama'a, stakeholders gathered in Galkayo and representatives of the Federal Government that are witnessing the process to take an inclusive and transparent approach.
The partners call for the remaining steps of the electoral process to be taken in the same spirit of compromise that has yielded the progress witnessed so far, in order for Galmudug to achieve its full potential for the benefit of the people of Galmudug.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Denmark, Djibouti, European Union, Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Sudan, Sweden, Turkey United Kingdom, United Nations and United States.
Link to original statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34238-joint-statement-galmudug




Date: 28 January 2020
Title: Joint Statement on Somalia’s Electoral Law
Content: 28 January 2020
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* reaffirm their commitment to supporting preparations for the 2020/2021 federal elections.
In order for elections to be held on time, it is essential that an implementable electoral law be adopted as a matter of priority, in keeping with the Mutual Accountability Framework agreed between partners and the Somali authorities in October 2019.
The partners held a series of meetings in recent weeks with key stakeholders in the electoral process including with the National Independent Electoral Commission (NIEC), Speakers of the House of the People and the Upper House, the Upper House Ad-Hoc Committee in charge of reviewing the current electoral bill, and the Somali Police Commissioner who chairs the National Security Task Force responsible for developing the security plan for the elections. Discussions centred around the importance of Parliament adopting an implementable and fundable electoral law in a timely manner, before the end of its current session, and on preparing a plan, including a budget, for the arrangements to secure the elections.
The partners stressed the importance of finding solutions to aspects of the bill that remain unresolved, such as the definition of constituencies, the allocation of Upper House seats, progress in achieving the Somali goal of “one person, one vote,” measures to ensure a minimum of 30 per cent representation of women, voting arrangements and representation for Banadir and Somaliland, as well as other operational arrangements.  They called on the Parliament to finalize an implementable law without delay to avoid a risk of political instability.
Partners have continued to provide technical support to the NIEC to jointly prepare and present options for Somali actors to resolve the outstanding issues in the draft bill.  At the request of the speakers of the two houses, the United Nations has provided a document, prepared jointly with the NIEC, with details of these options for their consideration.
Somalia’s international partners urge that Parliament seriously consider these technical options and agree on an implementable law before going on recess.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Australia, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, European Union, Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Sudan, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom, United Nations and United States.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34237-joint-statement-somalia%E2%80%99s-electoral-law




Date: 09 January 2020
Title: UN Special Representative, James Swan speaks to the press during visit to Hargeisa
Content: 09 January 2020
PRESS STATEMENT 01/2020
Good morning and Happy New Year to all of you.
I thank President Musa Bihi Abdi, his team, and the people of Somaliland for their warm welcome.

I last visited Hargeisa six months ago. I intend to continue to visit regularly for discussions with senior officials as well as non-governmental actors on developments in Somaliland.   The United Nations maintains a full-time office in Hargeisa and implements a wide range of programmes to benefit the people of Somaliland.
During this visit, I was honoured to meet with President Bihi and members of his cabinet, civil society representatives, political party leaders, and international partners working in Somaliland.  I also visited a disability skills project and a wildlife rescue project.
The United Nations welcomes initiatives aimed at building mutual confidence and fostering dialogue between Hargeisa and Mogadishu.  We believe there are many areas in which greater cooperation could improve security, promote economic growth, and improve the lives of the people.
We encourage rapid progress to complete all necessary steps for Somaliland to hold parliamentary elections in 2020. We welcome the inter-party dialogue and urge implementation of the recent agreements that would enable preparations for elections to be held in 2020.  We call on Somaliland authorities to ensure respect for freedom of speech and assembly, as well as the ability of political parties to organise and function. Such political space is essential for a credible process.
We have noted positively recent efforts to address longstanding disputes in Sool and Sanaag — including the aftermath of the 2018 Tukaraq fighting — through dialogue and constructive approaches to ease tensions and reduce the risk of further conflict.  We urge that these efforts be maintained and reinforced.
We are committed to continuing United Nations engagement with Somaliland and our many programmes in support of its people.  With 16 United Nations offices, agencies, funds, and programmes active in Somaliland, our support covers a wide range of governance, security, development, and humanitarian programmes.  As examples, the UN’s work includes support to primary schools, equipping teachers with the skills and materials to provide a sound basic education. We provide assistance to internally-displaced people and refugees in Somaliland, fleeing conflict elsewhere or forced to move by drought.  We support the rule of law, policing and the justice system. The UN’s work is diverse, but the common thread is that it aims to make a practical and positive difference to the people and public services of Somaliland.
Again, I thank our hosts for the kind reception.  I look forward to continuing regular visits to Hargeisa to maintain our communication and collaboration and to follow up on the important issues we have discussed this week.
Thank you.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34239-un-special-representative-james-swan-speaks-press-during-visit-hargeisa




Date: 29 December 2019
Title: Security Council Press Statement on Terrorist Attack in Mogadishu
Content: 29 December 2019
New York – The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest possible terms the terrorist attack of 28 December 2019 at the Ex-control Afgoye Junction in Mogadishu, which killed and injured innocent people.
The members of the Security Council expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims, as well as to the people and Government of Somalia.  The members of the Security Council wished a speedy recovery to those injured.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.
The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Government of Somalia and all other relevant authorities in this regard.
The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed.
The members of the Security Council reaffirmed the need for all States to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist attacks.
The members of the Security Council paid tribute to all Somali and international actors working to bring peace and stability in Somalia.  The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to support peace, stability, and development in Somalia. They underlined that neither this nor any other terrorist attack would weaken that determination.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34242-security-council-press-statement-terrorist-attack-mogadishu




Date: 28 December 2019
Title: Statement attributable to the Spokesman for the Secretary-General on Somalia
Content: 28 December 2019
New York – The Secretary-General strongly condemns the terrorist attack that took place in Mogadishu on 28 December 2019.
He extends his deepest sympathies and condolences to the families of the victims and wishes a speedy recovery to those injured. He stresses that the perpetrators of this horrendous crime must be brought to justice.
The Secretary-General reiterates the full commitment of the United Nations to support the people and Government of Somalia in their pursuit of peace and development.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34246-statement-attributable-spokesman-secretary-general-somalia




Date: 19 December 2019
Title: International Partners Joint Press Statement on Elections in Somalia
Content: 19 December 2019
International Partners Joint Press Statement on Elections in Somalia
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* reaffirm the importance of timely and effective preparations of the 2020/21 federal elections.
At the Somalia Partnership Forum on 2 October, the Federal Government committed to enact the Electoral law and the amended Political Parties Law by December 2019.  The Government further pledged to include at least 30 per cent minimum quota for the representation of women in parliament in line with commitments made before the previous electoral cycle; to establish security arrangements to allow as wide a participation of the Somali voting population as possible; and to conclude the electoral processes on the basis of credible, peaceful, “one person, one vote” free and fair elections by the end of 2020/early 2021. These undertakings are based on long-standing pledges by a wide range of Somali leaders to hold a direct, ‘one person, one vote’ elections in 2020/21.  The partners urge the fulfilment of these commitments.
In recent days, international partners have held consultations with the National Independent Electoral Commission (NIEC), the Speaker of the House of the People and the Speaker of the Upper House of the Federal Parliament, the Somali Federal Police Commissioner in his capacity as Chairman of the Electoral Security Task Force and Prime Minister Hassan Khaire. The partners took stock of progress and commended these Somali authorities for the election-related tasks accomplished to date.
In line with the commitments made by the Federal Government and other Somali stakeholders, the partners urge that the future election model should:
The partners call on the House of the People and the Upper House of the Federal Parliament to complete the adoption of the Electoral Bill and the revised Political Parties Law by the end of 2019. They also call on all stakeholders and institutions in Somalia to set aside their differences and engage in constructive dialogue.
Somalia’s international partners remain dedicated to support the advancement of Somalia’s commitment to good governance. The partners will continue to provide support to the electoral process and stand ready to offer technical expertise to the relevant Somali authorities as they devise a credible and implementable electoral model.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Canada, Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Kenya, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United Nations and United States.
Link to the original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34248-international-partners-joint-press-statement-elections-somalia




Date: 18 December 2019
Title: African Union, European Union, Intergovernmental Authority on Development and United Nations Hold Consultations in Garowe
Content: 18 December 2019
Garowe – Representatives of the African Union, European Union, Intergovernmental Authority on Development, and United Nations visited Puntland today in the fourth and last of a series of consultative meetings in the Federal Member States. 
 
As we look ahead to 2020, and what will be a critical year for Somalia, we have been engaging with a range of stakeholders across the country to hear their views on how the key national priorities can be realised next year. 
 
These priorities include preparations for ‘one-person, one-vote elections,’ finalisation of the Federal Constitution, continued progress towards debt relief, and the fight against Al-Shabaab. 
 
Here in Puntland, the representatives of some of Somalia’s multilateral partners have come to seek the views of the Puntland authorities, elders and civil society. We have conducted similar consultations in South West State, Hirshabelle, Jubaland and with the national authorities and President Haaf of Galmudug. 
 
These consultations have been an opportunity to hear directly from stakeholders on how Somalia’s national priorities can be achieved, and challenges overcome. We thank the people of Puntland for the warm welcome in Garowe as we conclude our visits. 
 
2020 has the potential to be an historic year for Somalia if all Somali leaders, institutions and communities engage in dialogue to agree a way forward. 
 
We look forward to supporting Somalia to ensure that 2020 is a milestone year for the country, and a year that enables Somalia to continue its upward trajectory.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34251-african-union-european-union-intergovernmental-authority-development-and-united-nations-hold




Date: 13 December 2019
Title: IOM Signs New Cooperation Agreement with Somalia
Content: 13 December 2019
Mogadishu - The International Organization for Migration (IOM) today (14/12) signed a new cooperation agreement with the Federal Government of Somalia, which underlines both parties’ mutual interest to strengthen cooperation and to work together on migration issues to promote economic and social development.
The agreement was signed in Mogadishu by IOM Regional Director for East and Horn of Africa, Mohamed Abdiker, and Somalia’s Minister of Planning, Investment and Economic Development, Gamal Mohamed Hassan. It renews an earlier agreement signed between the two parties in 1983 which focused on implementing programmes designed to reverse the impact of brain drain in developing countries like Somalia.
Thirty-six years later, IOM’s programme footprint has grown in Somalia. With over 450 staff across six regions of the country, IOM has been providing life-saving humanitarian services to crisis-affected populations, promoting durable solutions to displacement for IDPs and returnees, and supporting community stabilization and early recovery activities, while steadily supporting programmes related to long-term recovery and migration governance and development.
The recently launched Mission Strategy 2019 – 2021 is a testament to IOM’s commitment to working closely and strengthening its partnership with the Government of Somalia in line with the country’s National Development Plan.
Minister Hassan highlighted the need for a closer cooperation between IOM and the Government and thanked the organization for its commitment to supporting Somalia and its people. “The renewal of the cooperation agreement signifies the milestone thus far and reaffirms IOM’s commitment to work jointly on migration related issues,” Minister Hassan stated.
For his part, Abdiker highlighted the significant gains the Government and the people of Somalia have achieved over the past decade. He stressed the readiness of IOM to support the Government in achieving its development goals, including its commitments to SDGs and the Global Compact for Migration.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34579-iom-signs-new-cooperation-agreement-somalia




Date: 13 December 2019
Title: International partners welcome agreement between the Federal Government and ASWJ
Content: 13 December 2019
International partners welcome agreement between the Federal Government and ASWJ
Mogadishu - Somalia’s international partners* welcome the statements by the Federal Government of Somalia and the leadership of Ahlu Sunna Wal Jama’a (ASWJ) issued on 12 December.
We appreciate the tireless efforts made by the Federal Government of Somalia, ASWJ leadership and other concerned stakeholders to resolve points of difference through dialogue and compromise.
We believe this is an important step towards establishing a unified and stable administration in Galmudug, which will be essential in order to advance Somalia’s national priorities for 2020.
We encourage all concerned to continue their efforts and underscore the importance of an inclusive process that reflects the aspirations of all the communities of Galmudug, and that results in a fair, credible and transparent outcome that is acceptable to the people of Galmudug.
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Canada, Denmark, European Union, Ethiopia, Finland, Germany, Italy, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Kenya, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United Nations and United States.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34253-international-partners-welcome-agreement-between-federal-government-and-aswj




Date: 12 December 2019
Title: UNHCR and IOM: Over 5,000 Somali Refugees Voluntarily Returned Home from Yemen Since 2017
Content: 12 December 2019
Sana’a – The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) have helped 5,087 Somali refugees return home from Yemen since 2017.
In this latest departure, a boat carrying 145 Somali refugees left the Port of Aden today, and will arrive at the Port of Berbera Friday December 13. The voluntary returns are part of UNHCR’s Assisted Spontaneous Return (ASR) programme to which IOM is a partner.
UNHCR manages a Return Help Desk (RHD) as part of ASR in Aden, Al Mukalla city in Hadramaut governorate and Kharaz in Lahj governorate. Somali refugees can visit the RHD to receive counselling on ASR and get registered. UNHCR, in collaboration with IOM, supports Somali refugees who wish to return home with documentation, transportation and cash assistance to facilitate the journey.
IOM provides operational support to refugee return movements through chartering a boat, providing medical support upon arrival and transportation assistance to the refugees’ final destinations.
“The ongoing conflict in Yemen has made it difficult for many refugees to cover basic needs for their families and to sustain themselves given the limited work opportunities and economic hardships,” said Martin Manteaw, UNHCR Deputy Representative in Yemen.
“Some refugees are now opting to return home and it is important for UNHCR to continue to help those voluntarily wishing to go home to do so in dignity and safety,” said Manteaw.
Yemen hosts the world’s second largest Somali refugee population, around 250,000 refugees. It is a long-standing refugee host nation and the only country in the Arabian Peninsula which is signatory to the Refugee Convention and its protocol.
But, after more than four years of conflict in Yemen - the situation for civilians, refugees, asylum seekers and migrants has deteriorated. More than 24 million people need assistance in the world’s largest humanitarian crises.
“For refugees who have made the choice to return from Yemen, it is important that they can travel home safely and that reintegration into their communities of origin is facilitated,” said Christa Rottensteiner, IOM Yemen Chief of Mission.
Thirty-nine organized departures have now taken place from Yemen to Somalia since the ASR programme commenced two years ago. The programme is facilitated by UNHCR in partnership with IOM, and in cooperation with humanitarian partners and authorities in Yemen and Somalia.
Amongst those who departed today was 20-year-old Naima who is hoping to go back to school in Somalia. She had to stop her education 10 years ago when her father got sick. Naima was left helping her mother around the house and working in the family business.
“I hope to be able to go back to school, complete my education, study medicine, and one day become a doctor,” said Naima.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34586-unhcr-and-iom-over-5000-somali-refugees-voluntarily-returned-home-yemen-2017




Date: 11 December 2019
Title: African Union, European Union, Intergovernmental Authority on Development and United Nations hold consultations in Jowhar
Content: 11 December 2019
Jowhar – Representatives of the African Union, European Union, Intergovernmental Authority on Development and United Nations are pleased to be visiting Hirshabelle State today, in the second of a series of consultative meetings in Federal Member States.
As 2019 draws to a close, we are reflecting on the progress made this year, and looking ahead to 2020 as a critical year for Somalia. We are here in Hirshabelle to engage with a range of stakeholders, to hear their views on how key national priorities can be achieved in 2020. These include preparations for ‘one-person, one-vote’ elections, finalisation of the Federal Constitution, continued progress towards debt relief, and the fight against Al-Shabaab.
Ahead of this critical year, representatives of some of Somalia’s multilateral partners are engaging with national authorities, Federal Member States, elders and civil society, and we are grateful to Hirshabelle authorities for hosting us today.
These goals of 2020 are achievable with the strong collaboration of all stakeholders; 2020 has the potential to be a historic year for Somalia.  We encourage all Somali leaders, institutions and communities to engage in dialogue to agree a way forward, and to cooperate to realise the priorities for the year ahead.
We look forward to hearing from representatives in Federal Member States as we continue our visits, and we look forward to supporting Somalia to fulfil the national priorities it has committed to in 2020.
Link to the original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34255-african-union-european-union-intergovernmental-authority-development-and-united-nations-hold




Date: 10 December 2019
Title: African Union, European Union, Intergovernmental Authority on Development and United Nations hold consultations in Baidoa
Content: 10 December 2019
Baidoa – As 2019 draws to a close, representatives of the African Union, European Union, Intergovernmental Authority on Development and United Nations today visited Baidoa, capital of South West State, in the first of a series of consultative meetings in Federal Member States.
2020 will be a pivotal moment for Somalia, when a number of key national processes should be concluded. These processes will lay the foundations for Somalia’s further progress by agreeing on a Constitution, holding 'one-person, one-vote elections', continuing the fight against al Shabab, and paving the way for debt relief for Somalia. Achieving these will require the active collaboration of all Somali stakeholders, and it will particularly need the leadership of the Federal Government and the Federal Member States. In order to address these issues, we encourage all stakeholders to engage in dialogue with one another – this includes federal and state authorities, civil society and the people of Somalia.
It is with this in mind, ahead of this critical juncture in 2020, that we are engaging national as well as Federal Member State stakeholders to understand the opportunities and challenges to implementation of these processes for 2020 in Somalia.
As we conclude our visit to South West State, we appreciate the warm welcome of its people and we are grateful to the authorities, elders and civil society representatives who took the time to meet with us.
We look forward to hearing from other Federal Member States as we continue our visits, and to supporting Somalia to fulfil the national priorities it has committed to in 2020.
Link to original story.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34263-african-union-european-union-intergovernmental-authority-development-and-united-nations-hold




Date: 10 December 2019
Title: On Human Rights Day, UN envoy calls on Somali youth to build on progress
Content: 10 December 2019
Mogadishu – On the occasion of Human Rights Day, the UN envoy to Somalia today called on the country’s youth to build on progress made to date in enshrining human rights as a vital foundation of their society.
“The promotion and protection of human rights is a key element in a country’s path to peace and stability. Somalia has made progress in this area. With youth making up the majority of the country's population, the onus will lie with them to ensure that Somali society continues in this direction,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“I encourage the youth to advocate for their rights and the rights of others.  Our hope is that they -- together with Somalis of all ages and backgrounds -- can build a better future,” he added.
According to estimates, people under 30 years of age represent more than two-thirds of Somalia’s population – one of the largest demographic youth bulges in the world.
Observed on 10 December around the globe, Human Rights Day commemorates the day in 1948 on which the UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The theme of this year’s observance is ‘Youth Standing Up for Human Rights.’ It aims to spotlight the potential of youth as constructive agents of change and to amplify their voices.
In Somalia, the United Nations is encouraged by the steps made by the Federal Government this year to increase the protection of human rights and to uphold its international obligations.  This progress includes the Government’s re-engagement with international human rights mechanisms such as the Human Rights Council, the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and the passing of the Women’s Charter for Somalia.
The UN system in Somalia remains committed to support the promotion and protection of human rights for the benefit of the Somali people.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34258-human-rights-day-un-envoy-calls-somali-youth-build-progress




Date: 09 December 2019
Title: On International Anti-Corruption Day, UN envoy highlights importance of strengthening rule of law
Content: 09 December 2019
Mogadishu – Marking International Anti-Corruption Day, the United Nations envoy to Somalia today welcomed the country’s progress in strengthening the rule of law and building accountable and transparent institutions and underlined the importance of continuing to work on these areas.
“Corruption is a major obstacle to development. It undermines efforts toward state-building, peace and reconciliation. It erodes public trust and weakens state institutions’ ability to deliver to their people,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“In this respect, the United Nations is very encouraged by the recent signing into law by President Mohamed Abdillahi ‘Farmaajo’ of the bill on the establishment of the anti-corruption commission and the elaboration of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy,” he added. “These are commendable steps forward for Somalia.”
A key instrument to sustain, manage and track countries’ fight against corruption is the UN Convention against Corruption, the world’s only legally binding universal anti-corruption instrument, which this year marks its 16th anniversary since entering into force around the globe.
Although Somalia is one of a handful of countries yet to sign and ratify the Convention, the United Nations welcomes steps that are being taken towards this goal, such as the progress with the anti-corruption commission and the anti-corruption strategy.
The United Nations in Somalia also notes the Federal Government’s commitment to implement reforms that strengthen governance and reduce vulnerabilities to corruption evidenced by the recent passing of the National Audit Bill by the lower house and the passing of the amended Public Financial Management and Companies Acts by both houses of parliament.
In Somalia, the UN system has established an anti-corruption platform with international financial institutions and other development partners to provide technical and advisory services to the Federal Government of Somalia (FGS) in its efforts to curb corruption.
Other UN programmes mobilize resources to support FGS anti-corruption efforts across the country, centred on institutions and awareness-raising and on the judicial aspects of anti-corruption, such as criminalization and law enforcement, international cooperation and assets recovery in line with the Convention.
International Anti-Corruption Day is observed annually on 9 December with the aim of raising awareness of corruption and the role the Convention plays in combating and preventing it.
Link to original story.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34267-international-anti-corruption-day-un-envoy-highlights-importance-strengthening-rule-law




Date: 27 November 2019
Title: On delays to Somaliland Parliamentary and Local Council Elections
Content: 27 November 2019
Mogadishu - We, the undersigned regional and international partners* of Somaliland, recall the significant agreement between political parties in July 2019 which recognised the “critical importance of holding the long due Parliamentary and Local Council Elections” and “agreed to hold the elections as soon as they will be politically and technically possible.” We are concerned that events have significantly undermined these commitments to the detriment of Somaliland’s democratic credentials and international standing. Likewise, we are deeply concerned by instances of seemingly arbitrary detentions and by increased restrictions on freedom of expression.
We are especially concerned by the decision of the Guurti to extend both House of Representatives and Guurti's mandates to January 2022 and January 2023 respectively. Both Houses, established to represent the women and men of Somaliland, have been sitting for a period much too long by any democratic standards. Local councils have been operating without a democratic mandate since April 2019.
We therefore call on the government and all political actors to reaffirm, through both words and deeds, the long-standing culture of mutual agreement, consensus and compromise, to find a way through this current impasse in order for both parliamentary and local elections to take place without any further delay, well before the end of the calendar year 2020. As long-standing partners for the progress of Somaliland during the last 25 years, we praise the ongoing local mediation efforts and underline that for us to support the electoral process, it must promote political inclusiveness and the full respect of the law. As a solid foundation of such a process, there needs to be an Electoral Commission that inspires broad trust from all political actors as well as from the citizens of Somaliland.
Only strong, democratically elected institutions can deliver the development outcomes that the people of Somaliland deserve. This is also what we as partners expect from our cooperation with Somaliland.
*United Nations, IGAD, European Union, United States of America, Germany, United Kingdom, Norway, Ireland, Belgium, Sweden, Denmark, The Netherlands, Finland, France, Italy, Greece, Switzerland
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34285-delays-somaliland-parliamentary-and-local-council-elections




Date: 27 November 2019
Title: International partners welcome recent political engagement in Somalia
Content: 27 November 2019
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners* (listed below) welcome the recent meeting between President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed Farmaajo and two former Presidents, Hassan Sheikh Mohamud and Sheikh Sharif, which discussed Somalia’s priorities and the importance of preserving an open political space.
They also welcome the consultations between President Farmaajo and more than 50 political parties, as a positive step to foster inclusive dialogue ahead of the 2020 ‘one-person, one-vote’ elections.
We encourage further engagement among key stakeholders at both the national and Federal Member State level to ensure inclusive dialogue with a view to broad consensus on peaceful, free, fair, transparent and credible ‘one-person, one-vote; elections which will be an historic moment in Somalia’s state-building process.
*****
* African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Denmark, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Kenya, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United Nations, United States of America.
Link to original press statement.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34271-international-partners-welcome-recent-political-engagement-somalia




Date: 25 November 2019
Title: At start of global campaign against sexual and gender-based violence, UN highlights need for progress in Somalia
Content: 25 November 2019
Mogadishu – At the start of the annual global 16-day campaign against sexual and gender-based violence, the United Nations in Somalia today highlighted the importance of progress in this area.
“Gender-based violence and sexual violence are a means to suppress full political, social, and economic participation of women and girls.  Without the participation of more than half the population, sustainable peace and development will not be attained,” the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan, said.
“Preventing and ending sexual and gender-based violence is essential for Somalia to achieve a better future,” he added.
The 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence campaign runs from 25 November to 10 December – starting today on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and ending on Human Rights Day. The theme of this year’s campaign is ‘Orange the World: Generation Equality Stands Against Rape.’
Somalia’s Provisional Constitution of 2012 commits the country to ending discrimination on all grounds, including gender, and reaffirms the right of every person to their inviolable physical integrity. As a further step, the United Nations family urges that Parliament as a matter of priority consider and adopt the Sexual Offences Bill.
According to data collected by the Gender-Based Violence Information Management System (GBVIMS), out of the total number of reported incidents from January to September 2019, rape accounted for 15 per cent of these while sexual assault accounted for another 13 per cent. Access to justice was challenging, with many victims fearing retaliation from the perpetrators and stigmatization in their communities.
The UN in Somalia remains committed to supporting the government and the people of Somalia to help Somali women and girls realize their full potential and live a life free from violence of all forms.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34287-start-global-campaign-against-sexual-and-gender-based-violence-un-highlights-need-progress




Date: 16 November 2019
Title: Somalia’s International Partners welcome rapprochement between Somalia and Kenya
Content: 16 November 2019
Mogadishu – Somalia’s international partners listed below* welcome the measures agreed at a meeting between the President of Somalia, H. E. Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, and the President of Kenya, H. E. Uhuru Kenyatta, held in Nairobi on 14 November, as a significant step in strengthening the good relations between the two countries.
We commend the personal efforts of the two Presidents to improve relations between Kenya and Somalia.  We note the value of mutually beneficial relations between Somalia and its neighbours which contribute to the prosperity of their peoples, and positively impact security and development in the wider Horn of Africa region.
We look forward to the implementation of the measures agreed by the two Heads of State to deepen the ties between Kenya and Somalia.
*****
* – African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union, Finland, France, Germany, Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Italy, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Sweden, Turkey, Uganda,  United Kingdom, United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM), United States.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34289-somalia%E2%80%99s-international-partners-welcome-rapprochement-between-somalia-and-kenya




Date: 11 November 2019
Title: IOM Appeals for Urgent Humanitarian Assistance as Flash Floods Displace Thousands in Somalia
Content: 11 November 2019
Mogadishu - The International Organization for Migration is appealing for urgent humanitarian support to thousands of flood-affected people in Somalia. Flash floods following heavy rains in parts of Somalia have displaced thousands of vulnerable people.  In some of the worst hit areas, farms, infrastructure and roads have been destroyed, and livelihoods disrupted. An estimated 182,000 people have so far been displaced, according to humanitarian partners.
The Shabelle and Juba rivers in Hirshabelle Sate and South West State, respectively, have risen and inundated many surrounding towns. With another tropical storm forecast, the possibility of further damage remains a concern.
With funding from partners such as UN CERF, ECHO and the governments of Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom, IOM has ramped up response in the affected areas. But needs far outweigh available resources.
Using prepositioned emergency contingency stock, IOM was able to respond by delivering 3,200 emergency NFI kits to partners in Beledweyne, where the impact of the floods has been the most severe.  Further distributions will be based on the needs identified in other flood-affected regions. There is an urgent need to further replenish the contingency stock to enable partners to respond to the growing needs across Somalia.
IOM in collaboration with the Ministry of Health is delivering emergency primary healthcare services in affected areas. IOM has also prepositioned large stocks of emergency medical supplies to enable rapid expansion of services in response to additional flood-induced displacement and disease outbreaks. This will be accompanied by hygiene and health promotion campaigns specifically targeting flood-affected communities, emphasizing prevention of waterborne diseases and malaria.
Around 6,000 hygiene kits will also be distributed for flood-affected communities in Kismayo, Afmadow and Doolow to support their recovery. To complement this, IOM will begin the reconstruction and rehabilitation of 900 latrines in Baidoa and Doolow, as well as road repairs.
“IOM, using its strong field presence, is providing immediate support to those affected by flood to complement government efforts,” said Dyane Epstein, IOM Chief of Mission for Somalia. “But despite our best efforts, it is not enough. This is an alarming situation, which needs urgent attention and a coordinated, quick response.”
The floods have destroyed the shelters of vulnerable families already living in Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) sites and washed away their belongings.
“In Baidoa, people have moved to high ground where they are in immediate need of support in terms of WASH, food, shelter, health and nutrition supplies,” said Nasir Arush, Minister for Humanitarian and Disaster Management, South West State.
Ubah Hassan, a leader at Fanole internally displaced persons’ site, added: “The floods have soaked all our belongings—including food, beds and clothes. Many latrines have collapsed and many more are likely to collapse if the rain continues.”
Fanole is among 14 sites in Kismayo that have been affected by the flooding.
In Doolow, where IOM supports two large IDP sites, assessments conducted found that more than 2,000 households have been affected by the rain.
“During the assessment we found destroyed shelters and latrines, while personal belongings of the community were completely washed away,” reported one Camp Coordination and Camp Management Officer in Doolow. “There is a fear of increased risks of diseases such as Acute Watery Diarrhoea and malaria infection due to contamination of water supplies and stagnant water.”
Other areas in Lower Juba, Gedo and Bay regions, where IOM has supported displaced populations for years, have also been affected. In these areas, the displaced are stranded without food, latrines or shelter.
Urgent needs such as mosquito nets, shelter and NFI kits, drainage systems, flood mitigation kits and road repairs remain across many of the flood-affected regions, and the situation is predicted to worsen in the coming weeks. The government authorities have appealed for further assistance to respond to these devastating floods.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34595-iom-appeals-urgent-humanitarian-assistance-flash-floods-displace-thousands-somalia




Date: 01 November 2019
Title: On Africa Youth Day, UN Envoy Hails their Contributions to Peace and Prosperity in Somalia
Content: 01 November 2019
Mogadishu – As Africa celebrates its youth, the United Nations envoy to Somalia today recognised the immense potential of young Somali women and men to contribute to peace and prosperity in Somalia.
“In my regular discussions with young Somali women and men, I have been impressed by their energy and ideas. They must be afforded an opportunity to have a meaningful role in decision-making processes, to help shape the future that is theirs,” the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan, said.
The United Nations Population Fund estimates that 4.6 million Somalis are aged between 15 and 35 years. Somali youth represent 38 per cent of the country’s population, yet they have limited access to education and employment opportunities.
“Somalia also needs to create avenues for youth to access quality education, marketable job skill training, and job opportunities, so that youth’s talents can be channelled towards the country’s development,” Mr. Swan added.
Aligned with the Somali National Youth Policy, the United Nations’ programmes focus on strengthening youth’s economic, social, and participatory capabilities, through a portfolio of over 54 million dollars.
The United Nations, supporting the African Union agenda for youth empowerment, recognises the crucial role that young generations play in supporting their countries’ agendas for peace and development.
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34288-africa-youth-day-un-envoy-hails-their-contributions-peace-and-prosperity-somalia




Date: 30 October 2019
Title: UN Envoy to Somalia Expresses Deep Concern, Solidarity with Flood Victims
Content: 30 October 2019
Mogadishu – The United Nations envoy to Somalia today voiced his concern over the flooding affecting thousands of people mainly in the southern parts of the country, and highlighted the world body’s willingness to support efforts to provide aid to those affected.
“I am saddened by the heavy toll that the floods are taking on the people of Somalia, and deeply concerned about the situation of people who have lost homes and livelihoods,” said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“I extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and wish a speedy recovery to all injured and affected by the flooding,” he added. “The United Nations stands ready to work with Somalia’s federal and regional authorities to support affected communities.”
Tens of thousands of people have been displaced, and casualties have been reported. Farmland, infrastructure and roads have been destroyed, and livelihoods disrupted in some of the worst-hit areas.
Heavy seasonal rains triggered floods along the Juba and Shabelle rivers in Hirshabelle, Jubaland and South West states. Flash flooding was also reported in Benadir region, Jowhar in Hirshabelle, and Ceel Cade and Jamame in Jubaland.
“I want to thank the Government of Somalia for demonstrating leadership by setting up an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate flood response with state authorities,” the UN envoy said.
“The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and its humanitarian partners are working with the authorities to quickly deliver live-saving assistance to affected people,” Mr. Swan added. “The World Food Programme is deploying a helicopter dedicated to support humanitarian response efforts in Belet Weyne and other affected locations. I’m grateful to the UN Support Office in Somalia for the temporary use of helicopters to assist in carrying out search-and-rescue operations despite pressing operational demands.”
Link to original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34274-un-envoy-somalia-expresses-deep-concern-solidarity-flood-victims




Date: 27 October 2019
Title: ON VISIT TO GAROWE, UN ENVOY WELCOMES PROGRESS AND ENCOURAGES ALL SOMALIS TO WORK TOGETHER ON NATIONAL ISSUES
Content: 27 October 2019
Mogadishu – The United Nations envoy to Somalia today met with President Said Abdullahi Deni and members of his cabinet in Garowe, the capital of Puntland state, as part of his regular engagement activities with the leaders of Somalia’s Federal Member States.
“Today’s visit provided another welcome opportunity for me to hear first-hand from Puntland’s leadership about the progress being made with its ambitious agenda”, said the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
Mr. Swan congratulated Puntland’s leaders for the recent successful investment conference and the start of the Ethiopian Airlines flights to Garowe, noting that these developments were positive signals of economic revival in Puntland. President Deni and team also described their preparations for a new Puntland Development Plan and the work of the Transitional Puntland Electoral Commission (TPEC).
“These are solid examples of the Puntland Government’s commitment to economic and social development, and to democratization, which we applaud,” said Mr. Swan.
Regarding national issues, the UN Special Representative encouraged all Somalis to work together toward achieving consensus on issues of critical importance, such as completion of the constitutional review, organization of national parliamentary elections, achievement of debt relief, and advancement of security gains against Al-Shabaab.  He called for the resumption of cooperation between the Federal Government and all Federal Members States as a matter of urgency.
“Puntlanders are rightly proud of the progress they have made in the past 21 years, since the establishment of their constitution, a first among Federal Member States," Mr. Swan said. "I am confident that, under President Said Deni’s leadership, Puntland can play a constructive role in advancing national priorities."
Link to the original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34293-visit-garowe-un-envoy-welcomes-progress-and-encourages-all-somalis-work-together-national




Date: 23 October 2019
Title: HIGH-LEVEL UN-AU DELEGATION HIGHLIGHT SOMALIA’S PROGRESS AND CHALLENGES WITH WOMEN IN PEACE AND SECURITY
Content: 23 October 2019
Mogadishu – On a visit to the Somali capital today, a high-level delegation of United Nations and African Union officials welcomed the Horn of Africa country’s achievements in women’s participation in its peace, security and development efforts– while also calling for further progress.
“After decades of conflict and amidst the ongoing violence the people of Somalia still faces, the country has made enormous strides on its path to peace and stability. In our short visit here, we have heard from government officials and civil society leaders how Somali women taking part in peace and security efforts has helped advance society towards an inclusive and peaceful future. This is the future the people of Somalia rightly deserve and which the United Nations and African Union fully support,” said the UN delegation’s head, the UN Deputy Secretary-General, Amina Mohammed.
“However, much more remains to be done, especially to ensure gender equality, including women’s full participation in the ‘one person, one vote’ federal elections next year. We welcome recent gains, especially in the areas of human rights, civic and political participation, access to justice and basic services,” the Deputy Secretary-General added.
Ms. Mohammed was joined by the African Union Special Envoy on Women, Peace and Security, Bineta Diop, and the Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General for the Horn of Africa, Parfait Onanga-Anyanga.
The aim of the one-day visit was to express the UN and AU’s commitment to work with the Somali people in their pursuit of peace, stability and credible elections. The delegation underscored the importance of women’s meaningful participation in political, peace and security efforts, particularly in relation to countering violent extremism, holding elections and advancing development efforts. The delegation also expressed its strong support to the critical role played by AMISOM and IGAD in consolidating the peace process in Somalia.
While in Mogadishu, the Deputy Secretary-General met with Prime Minister Hassan Ali Khayre and cabinet ministers from the Federal Government of Somalia to hear about government policy. The full delegation met the Chairperson of the National Independent Electoral Commission, Halima Ismail Ibrahim, and a group of women civil society leaders who discussed the upcoming ‘one person, one vote’ elections and countering violent extremism, among other topics. The AU Special Envoy on Women, Peace and Security also met with female peacekeepers.
“The opportunity to hear from a diverse range of voices about the role of Somali women in different spheres of life drove home just how vibrant and engaged they are, and also how committed they are to ensuring that the role of women and gender equality is factored into all facets of life here,” said the Deputy Secretary-General. “This means challenging some outdated traditional views on the role of women and creating a space for them to be able to fulfill their potential.”
The AU Special Envoy on Women, Peace and Security stated on behalf of the African Union Chairperson, Mr Moussa Faki “I strongly believe in the critical role played by women in peace operations. I salute the sacrifices and outstanding commitment to peace and stabilization efforts in the context of AMISOM.”
The delegation’s activities also included meetings with senior officials from the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM), UN Support Office in Somalia (UNSOS) and UN agencies, funds and programmes to be briefed on the work the world body is carrying out to support Somalia’s progress towards political inclusion, lasting peace and socio-economic development, particularly in relation to Somalia’s efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
The UN-AU delegation was in Somalia as part of a six-day trip to countries in the Horn of Africa region.
Link to the original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34294-high-level-un-au-delegation-highlight-somalia%E2%80%99s-progress-and-challenges-women-peace-and




Date: 22 October 2019
Title: Somalia’s 2.6m Internally Displaced Citizens in Need of Water, Shelter and Health
Content: 22 October 2019

There are reports of urgent need for assistance among the most affected regions, such as Baidoa.
In the first half of the year, forced displacement in Somalia was primarily due to insecurity, drought and floods, and currently a total of 2.6 million people remain displaced within the country.
Following the declaration of a severe drought in the Horn of Africa region, aid agencies, in collaboration with the Government of Somalia, launched a Drought Impact Response Plan in June.
Of the 15 million people living in Somalia, 5.4 million (about 30%) were estimated to be food insecure with 2.2 million of these in severe acute food insecurity conditions.
More than half of the population lives in poverty with the highest poverty rates found in displacement settlements, with affected populations mainly coming from Lower Shabelle, Bakool, Bay and Sanaag and heading towards Middle Shabelle and Banadir.
Baidoa, the capital of Bay region, hosts one of the largest IDP populations in Somalia. According to figures compiled by the international community, as of September 2019, Baidoa had 359,994 internally displaced persons, consisting of 51,322 households on 435 sites.
Ali Ahmed, an IOM field officer in Baidoa said: “We have new arrivals here coming every day, every week...The biggest gap for the new arrivals is food, water and shelter – that is the main challenge.”
IOM’s Chief of Mission in Somalia Dyane Epstein said: “The needs are immense, and IOM is working together with the government, communities, and international partners to provide the much-needed support, ensuring their basic needs are met.”
In all, the East and Horn of Africa region had 8.1 million IDPs and 3.5 million refugees and asylum-seekers as of June.
Largely due to prolonged conflict, Somalia also has a considerable refugee population abroad, nearly 900,000, according to UNHCR’s Global Trends Report issued in June 2019. The majority were staying in Kenya (34.7%), Ethiopia (26.4%) and Yemen (34%), in addition to 6 per cent hosted by other countries.
Somalia itself hosted 17,000 refugees and asylum-seekers who were mainly settled in Woqooyi Galbeed, Bari and Banadir. Mainly from Ethiopia, Yemen and other countries, including Syria, Tanzania and Eritrea.
For more information, contact Jan Van’t Land at IOM Somalia, Email: iomsomaliapsu@iom or Wilson Johwa at IOM Nairobi, Tel: +254 701 838 029, Email: wjohwa@iom.int

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34604-somalia%E2%80%99s-26m-internally-displaced-citizens-need-water-shelter-and-health




Date: 14 October 2019
Title: STATEMENT ON THE SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF 14 OCTOBER BOMBING IN MOGADISHU
Content: 14 October 2019
Mogadishu – On the second anniversary of the deadly October 14, 2017 suicide bombings in Somalia, the United Nations envoy to the country today remembered the victims of the attack and reaffirmed the world body’s solidarity with and commitment to all Somalis.
“Two years have passed since the tragic events of 14 October 2017, in which so many innocent civilians were killed and injured in a senseless attack by violent extremists. The memory is still fresh in our minds. Our thoughts go out to the families of those lost in the attack, as well as to the survivors. Their resilience and strength in the face of such adversity is a testament to the Somali spirit,” said the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan.
“Despite such senseless acts of terrorism, Mogadishu and the rest of the country have continued on their path towards peace and prosperity. The United Nations remains committed to supporting all Somalis on this journey” he added.
The attack killed at least 587 people and ranks as the deadliest ever terrorist bombing in Africa involving the use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs). Hundreds more were injured in the blast.
Link to the original press statement.

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34295-statement-second-anniversary-14-october-bombing-mogadishu




Date: 13 October 2019
Title: SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL FOR SOMALIA CONDEMNS ATTACK ON UN AND AMISOM COMPOUNDS IN MOGADISHU
Content: 13 October 2019
Mogadishu – The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia, James Swan, condemned today’s indirect fire attack on the United Nations and AMISOM compounds in the Somali capital.
At about 1:15 (local time) this afternoon, mortar rounds landed inside the UN and AMISOM facilities, injuring several people..
“I am appalled by this blatant act of terrorism against our personnel, who work together with the Somali people on humanitarian, peace building, and development issues. Thankfully, the majority of our staff is unhurt. I wish our wounded colleagues a full recovery from their injuries,” said Mr. Swan. “There is no justification for such despicable acts of violence, and the United Nations remains determined to support Somalia on its path to peace, stability and development.”
No organization has yet claimed responsibility for this attack.
Link to the original press statement.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34296-special-representative-secretary-general-somalia-condemns-attack-un-and-amisom-compounds




Date: 04 October 2019
Title: Saudi Arabia’s KSrelief, Kuwait Support Somalis Returning from Yemen
Content: 04 October 2019

The movement was made possible through funding from the King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre (KSrelief) and the Government of Kuwait. IOM works in partnership with UNHCR on returnee movements out of war-torn Yemen. With the conflict having effects on the economic and security situation in Yemen, many migrants and refugees find themselves without the means to provide for themselves and their families. Stranded, they then turn to humanitarian organizations for return assistance.
At Berbera port, representatives from the Somaliland National Displacement and Refugee Agency (NDRA), together with IOM, UNHCR, KSrelief, the Danish Refugee Council, Somaliland Red Crescent Society, Ministry of Health and the Immigration Department, welcomed the returnees home. One of them, a 50-year-old man, expressed his gratitude: “We were provided with transport and welcomed nicely. I decided to return after I realised that the war, the main reason I left Somalia, has ended.”
“We thank KSrelief for their support to this important project enabling Somali to return back to their home,” said NDRA representative Abdiqani Abdirahman Mohamoud, who also acknowledged IOM and other counterparts involved in the operation.
Since this KSrelief-funded project began in November 2018, 1,505 (783 men and 722 women) Somali returnees were assisted. The aim of the project is to facilitate safe and dignified movements from Yemen and contribute to sustainable reintegration of Somali returnees.
“I am happy to attend the arrival of this twelfth movement we were able to support. We thank the government authorities, IOM and the other agencies for their efforts in welcoming the returnees and providing them with further assistance,” said Yousef Bakheet R. Albulushi, KSrelief representative at the port of Berbera.
Contributions from the Government of Kuwait were also used to finance the movement from the Yemen side on 30 September.
IOM and partners offered reception assistance to the people returning from Yemen. Those in need of medical support were assisted at the IOM clinic at the Berbera Reception Centre, together with the Ministry of Health supported by IOM. In the days that followed their arrival, IOM helped to ensure that the returnees had the support needed to reach their final destination.
For more information, please contact:
IOM office in Hargeisa: Sikhulile Dhlamini, Tel: +252634163636, Email: sidhlamini@iom.int
IOM Yemen: Olivia Headon, Tel: +967730552233, Email: oheadon@iom.int

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34605-saudi-arabia%E2%80%99s-ksrelief-kuwait-support-somalis-returning-yemen




Date: 15 September 2019
Title: On International Day, UN Envoy highlights democracy's special relevance in Somalia's transformation
Content: 15 September 2019
On the occasion of the International Day of Democracy, the United Nations envoy to Somalia today highlighted its special relevance as the country prepares for its historic ‘one person, one vote’ elections.
Mogadishu – On the occasion of the International Day of Democracy, the United Nations envoy to Somalia today highlighted its special relevance as the country prepares for its historic ‘one person, one vote’ elections.
“This day is an opportunity to affirm that democracy is about people and to urge all governments to respect their citizens’ right to participate freely in choosing their leaders and deciding important national issues,” the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Somalia, James Swan, said.
“It is our hope that a wide cross-section of Somali citizens can participate in the political life of Somalia through the ongoing constitutional review process and in the ‘one person, one vote’ elections scheduled in the last quarter of 2020,” the Special Representative added.
Along with various parts of the UN system and international partners, the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM), headed by Mr. Swan, is supporting the country’s National Independent Electoral Commission (NIEC), which is tasked with delivering the elections in 2020.
In this effort, UNSOM also highlights the NIEC’s need for unremitting support from all public institutions, as well as the Somali people, in this undertaking which can provide a basis for consolidation of Somalia’s gains in democratic transformation.
Observed annually on 15 September, the International Day of Democracy provides an opportunity to review the state of democracy in the world. The theme of this year’s observance is ‘Participation,’ with a focus on recalling that democracy is built on inclusion, equal treatment and participation, and it is a fundamental building block for peace, sustainable development and human rights.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/17892-international-day-un-envoy-highlights-democracys-special-relevance-somalias-transformation




Date: 12 September 2019
Title: United Nations and World Bank Group call for sustained funding to relieve suffering in Somalia
Content: 12 September 2019
With the latest analysis showing that Somalia’s main harvest was the worst since the famine in 2011, Under-Secretary-General (USG) for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Mark Lowcock today called for sustained funding to protect recent gains made in beating back hunger and reiterated the importance of the Government’s Resilience and Recovery Framework, which is at the centre of efforts to break the paradigm of recurring humanitarian crises in Somalia.
He was speaking at the end of a two-day mission to Somalia undertaken with the World Bank Group’s Senior Vice President for the 2030 Development Agenda, United Nations Relations, and Partnerships, Mahmoud Mohieldin, and the United Nations Assistant Secretary-General for Peacebuilding Support, Oscar Fernandez-Taranco. “The latest food security analysis for Somalia shows that our response is working. One million fewer Somalis are hungry today than had been projected because we acted early when we saw the situation could deteriorate and because aid workers are able to deliver,” Mr. Lowcock said. “The analysis also showed that the harvest from the April-June cropping season is the worst since 2011 because of poor and erratic rains, followed by flooding at the end of the rainy season.
"As a result, up to six million people are now projected to be food insecure over the coming months. A third of them will be severely food insecure without sustained aid. And climate-related events will continue to have deleterious effects on the humanitarian situation in Somalia.” Over the past 30 years, droughts have become more intense and frequent in Somalia, which also faces recurring flooding during the rainy seasons. Much of Somalia’s infrastructure is dilapidated as a result of the decades-long conflict and lack of investment, which further undermines the country’s ability to cope.
Together with ongoing conflict, these shocks continue to drive people from their homes. The 2.6 million people already displaced are often marginalized on the fringes of society, facing evictions and other indignities.
The delegation visited Baidoa where nearly 360,000 people who fled slow onset drought, terrorist attacks and armed conflict over the past three years live in 400 sites in and around the town. “Conflict and marginalization perpetuate drivers of fragility and fuels displacement. A sustained humanitarian response must be combined with government-led developmental and peacebuilding approaches to promote reconciliation and to assist people to rebuild their country,” said Mr. Fernandez-Taranco. The Peacebuilding Fund that his office manages is supporting the Midnimo project that brings together humanitarian, development and peacebuilding elements to address the impact of displacement in Baidoa.
In a constructive meeting with Prime Minister Hassan Ali Khaire in Baidoa, the three officials commended the Government for its leadership on the Recovery and Resilience Framework and reiterated their commitment to supporting the Government to address the impacts of repeated cycles of disaster.
“The World Bank Group will continue to support Somalia’s efforts to boost investment in its productive sectors and infrastructure in line with the priorities of the Recovery and Resilience Framework and the new National Development Plan for 2020-2024,” said Mr. Mohieldin. “However, unlocking substantial additional investment requires Somalia to qualify for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative. The coming months will be critical in this regard and we welcome the authorities’ efforts to sustain the positive track record established over the last few years on institutional and economic governance reforms.”
One innovative way the World Bank Group and partners are supporting the Government to change the paradigm of recurring crisis is by rolling out an anticipatory action model in Somalia which would release funding for pre-agreed projects to mitigate the impact of drought when it is forecast. The Famine Action Mechanism (FAM), developed by the World Bank Group, the United Nations and NGOs, is expected to be operational to provide anticipatory financing with funding from the World Bank Group next year. OCHA is also supporting work towards anticipatory action financing to recurrent drivers of humanitarian needs in Somalia.
The FAM builds on earlier help international partners have provided to mitigate the worst of climate shocks through early action. In 2017, the UN and partners averted famine in Somalia by sounding the alarm early, which spurred donors to contribute generously to the response. “Following the failed harvest and the impact of flooding, I urge all donors to step up their generous support to enable the provision of life-saving assistance alongside long-term and durable solutions to help prevent a recurrence of humanitarian crises,” said USG Lowcock.
For further information, please contact:
Russell Geekie, OCHA New York, geekie@un.org, +1 917 331 0393
Tapiwa Gomo, OCHA Somalia, gomo@un.org, Tel. +252 616 548 007
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/17793-united-nations-and-world-bank-group-call-sustained-funding-relieve-suffering-somalia




Date: 02 September 2019
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killing of cameraman Abdinasir Abdulle Ga’al in Somalia
Content: 02 September 2019
The Director-General of UNESCO, Audrey Azoulay, today denounced the killing of cameraman Abdinasir Abdulle Ga’al in a bomb attack on a military base in Awdheegle in southern Somalia on 14 August that left a total of six people dead.
“I condemn this terror attack,” the Director-General said. “The killing of Abdinasir Abdulle Ga’al comes as a tragic reminder of the pressing need for better protections for journalists in conflict zones, including those working alongside the military.”
Abdulle Ga’al, a 24-year-old cameraman for Radio Somali National Army (SNA), was killed by a car bomb while travelling with the military to interview elders in Awdheegle, shortly after the national army ended the occupation of the town by Al-Shabab.
UNESCO promotes the safety of journalists through global awareness-raising, capacity building and a range of actions, notably in the framework of the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity.
See also: UNESCO observatory of killed journalists
Link to original story

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20756-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-cameraman-abdinasir-abdulle-ga%E2%80%99al-somalia




Date: 31 July 2019
Title: Migrant Returnees Acquire Business Skills
Content: 31 July 2019

IOM Hargeisa completed a six-day ‘Training of Trainers’ programme as well as a three-day follow-up training on ‘Start and Improve Your Business Idea’. The latter is a management training programme developed by the International Labour Organization (ILO) with a focus on starting and improving small businesses in emerging economies.
The training has a three-tier structure comprising a master trainer licensed by ILO, trainers and the end beneficiaries.
The master trainer upskilled the capacity of 12 participants, including IOM staff, government stakeholders and implementing partners.
During the follow-up training completed on 24 July, participants qualified to become trainers for a group of 33 migrants newly-returned from Libya who are now equipped with basic business skills and knowledge on how to generate and develop business ideas.
Knowledge, motivation and experiences play a significant role in the reintegration process, contributing to the achievement of sustainable reintegration.
The training was done as part of the EU-IOM Joint Initiative for Migrant Protection and Reintegration in the Horn of Africa which facilitates safe and voluntary return of stranded migrants from transit and destination countries. Since the programme’s inception in 2017 288 migrants have safely returned to Hargeisa and the surrounding areas in Somaliland.
The type of assistance they receive is in most cases provided in the form of an individually-tailored package granted in kind to returnees and, where applicable, to their family members.
As such, effective counselling, along with the provision of accurate information allow for the EU-IOM Joint Initiative to tailor assistance to each migrant returnee. This can be done through supporting the generation of business ideas, the set-up of small business and the re-entry of the migrant returnees into the local labour market.
According to one of the participants, Khalif: “The training allowed me to acquire practical skills such as creating a business plan, understanding financial planning and how to link beneficiaries with financial institutions.”
The EU-IOM Joint Initiative facilitates orderly, safe, regular and responsible migration management through the development of rights-based and development-focused procedures and processes on protection and sustainable reintegration. The project, funded by the EU Trust Fund, covers and has been set up in close cooperation with a total of 26 African countries.
For more information, contact Amy Edwards, Email: aedwards@iom.int

Link to original

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34606-migrant-returnees-acquire-business-skills




Date: 31 July 2019
Title: UN’s Special Representative On Sexual Violence In Conflict Visits IOM Project In Somalia
Content: 31 July 2019

As part of efforts to provide support to such women and girls, IOM runs a project to provide community-based rehabilitation and reintegration support to such women. It is the first project to engage with highly vulnerable and at-risk female population in Somalia.
On 14 July, Pramila Patten, the UN’s Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict (SVC) visited Baidoa in South West State of Somalia where she met with the local women organization implementing this project. IOM’s project supporting women formerly associated with armed groups.
During her visits, Patten listened first hand to stories of women who had been conscripted into armed groups. Many of them had experienced sexual violence.
“The women we supported through this project went through the worst. Some of the beneficiaries were abducted and forced into marriages with the armed men, living with all kinds of abuses,” one social worker who works closely with the women said.
She added: “In some cases, the parents were threatened to turn their daughter back to the armed men when she escaped or had to pay thousands of dollars for ransom. Those who were never released risked their lives escaping and had to beg for divorce from their husbands while raising tens of children on her own.”
IOM is partnering with the Somali Government, UNSOM, and local women organizations.  The project is funded by the United Nations Peace-Building Fund (UNPBF).
The project supports 150 women formerly associated with armed groups through psychosocial and religious counselling, access to medical treatment, protective services, vocational and skills trainings, business and livelihoods support, as well as outreach activities promoting their social and economic reintegration.
Even so, the needs remain immense. It is estimated that there are over 2,600 women who have escaped, were rescued, or defected from armed groups in Somalia and need critical social and economic supports to safely reintegrate in their communities.
Nimco Ahmed, a gender advisor with IOM said, “As many beneficiaries were not aware of their rights as women, providing support to survivors of sexual violence is a priority for us all. In addition to helping them feel safe in their communities, we are aiming to support beneficiaries in accessing sustainable livelihood opportunities so that they can generate food and income to survive and feed their families”
The Special Representative applauded local partners’ hard work and expressed interests in receiving regular updates on the project.
Patten said: “The DDR pilot project is innovative and seems promising. It’s important that we continuously strengthen the gender responsive element of the project to effectively address the dynamic needs of women associated with armed groups.”
For more information reach out to the IOM Somalia Programme Support Unit through iomsomaliapsu@iom.int or +254 705 832 020 or contact the DDR Programme Coordinator Matthew Decristofano – mdecristofan@iom.int

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34607-un%E2%80%99s-special-representative-sexual-violence-conflict-visits-iom-project-somalia




Date: 31 July 2019
Title: Somali Women MPs attend leadership training in Addis Ababa as part of gender equality initiative
Content: 31 July 2019
31 July 2019, Addis Ababa
The training was organized by UNDP Somalia under a joint UN Women's Political Participation, Leadership, and Empowerment (WPE) project, and aimed to increase the MPs' skills in advocating for gender equality and the rights of women and girls, and in taking more prominent leadership roles in decision making in government. It also looked at how to strategically address the underlying social causes of gender inequalities and to identify initiatives for positive change. Those taking part were also trained to carry out the same training for other female members of parliament and women leaders in Somalia.
Senator Shukri Aden, of the Upper House of the Somali Federal Parliament, said training on leadership was vital for women. "These trainings are key in that they help us to forge strategic alliances and to create a platform for women leaders, so that we can work together to advance gender equality and women's empowerment in Somalia."
Somalia's Gender Inequality Index remains one of the highest in the world, at 0.777, with a maximum of 1 denoting complete inequality, placing Somalia at the fourth-highest position globally for gender inequality. Lack of access to education, gender-based violence, high maternal mortality, female genital mutilation, high numbers of women becoming internally displaced, and high percentage of child marriage are some of the obstacles that contribute to inequality and which create obstacles for women in equally participating in public and political life.
However, women's representation in politics in Somalia has been increasing in recent elections, following the acceptance of a 30 percent quota for women's representation in parliament at federal and federal member state level. The quota, which was won through sustained advocacy by Somali women's groups with UN and international support, paved the way for women to then win 25 percent of seats in parliament in the 2016 federal electoral process. In 2019, Somali women also developed a Women's Charter, which calls for fifty percent representation in political and socio-economic arenas.
Hon. Nouria Isse, an MP of the House of the People of the Federal Parliament, said that she is committed to using the knowledge she gained to train other female members of the parliament at both federal and federal state level. "Because of this training, we now have in house leadership experts who can train a larger number of women parliamentarians, parliamentary committees and federal member states assemblies," she said.
Mubarik Mohamoud, UNDP Project Manager for the Women's Political Participation Project, highlighted that strong leadership is crucial for promoting women's political empowerment and enhancing their role and participation in public life. "It is crucial for women MPs to enhance their existing leadership skills so that they can advocate for, and implement, laws and policies promoting the participation of women in decision-making," he said.
UNDP works in partnership with the Federal Government of Somalia and Federal State Ministries, to increase the participation and leadership role of women in peacebuilding and state-building processes in Somalia, under a UN Joint Programme on Women's Political Participation, Leadership and Empowerment. The Joint programme is carried out in collaboration with UN Women and the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM) and with the support of the Department for International Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/17920-somali-women-mps-attend-leadership-training-addis-ababa-part-gender-equality-initiative




Date: 24 July 2019
Title: UNESCO Director-General deplores the killing of journalists Hodan Nalayeh and Mohamed Sahal Omar in Somali terror attack
Content: 24 July 2019
“I condemn the violence that killed Hodan Nalayeh and Mohamed Sahal Omar,” said the Director-General. “There can be no justification for the killing of civilians, including journalists who play an essential role in upholding informed democratic choices and rule of law.”
Hodan Nalayeh had recently founded the Integration TV YouTube channel which sought to present positive stories about Somalia. Mohamed Sahal Omar was a reporter for SBC TV in Kismayo. Both died in an Al-Sahab extremists’ attack on a hotel where elders and local politicians were meeting.
UNESCO promotes the safety of journalists through global awareness-raising, capacity building and a range of actions, notably in the framework of the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity.
See also: UNESCO observatory of killed journalists
Link to original story

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20758-unesco-director-general-deplores-killing-journalists-hodan-nalayeh-and-mohamed-sahal-omar




Date: 19 July 2019
Title: Technology Allows Migrant Returnees in Hargeisa to Access Services
Content: 19 July 2019

In the Horn of Africa, Somalis account for the largest migrant population after Ethiopians. They move both intra-regionally and out of the region, particularly towards the Arabian Peninsula and Europe. Many also opt to return, often approaching IOM when they get stranded in places like war-torn Libya.
However, like elsewhere, returning migrants often lack valid documents, having had them lost or confiscated during their migratory journey. Without such enabling documents, which may include national registration certificates, basic support services provided by the government can be out of reach.
The new database, jointly developed between IOM and the Somaliland’s National Displacement and Refugee Agency (NDRA), intends to enhance the capacity for response in this area. Following a capacity assessment that took place in February 2019, IOM internally developed the application which was launched in June.
Last week (11 July) IOM donated three high-resolution webcams to NDRA that will be used to take photos of the returning migrants upon registration. Presiding over the ceremony was NDRA chairman Abdulkariim Ahmed Mohamed and IOM’s Head of the Hargeisa Sub-Office Sikhulile Dhlamini, who both welcomed the collaboration between the two agencies.
According to Mohamed: “NDRA now has a registration system that will collect pertinent information from returnees, which is a result of the technical expertise provided by IOM following a request made by NDRA in February 2019.” He added: “We also appreciate that IOM spent time building the capacity of NDRA staff to enable them to use the database software effectively.”
Funding for the database’s development was provided by the EU-IOM Joint Initiative for Migrant Protection and Reintegration in the Horn of Africa, which also supports migrants’ voluntary return and reintegration. It is backed by the EU Trust Fund, which covers and has been set up in close cooperation with a total of 26 African countries.
The programme facilitates orderly, safe, regular and responsible migration management through the development of rights-based and development-focused procedures and processes on protection and sustainable reintegration.
Since the launch of the EU-IOM Joint Initiative in early 2017, some 288 migrants have safely returned to Hargeisa and the surrounding areas in Somaliland. The new database will support the capture of information upon registration, including migration history, education and skills.
The system will also provide case management functionalities that in the long run will allow for the tracking of services provided to the registered individuals as well as the possibility of generating a ‘Returnee Registration Certificate’ and extracting reports to analyze trends and common experiences of returning migrants.
NDRA also plans to deploy the application at its office in Berbera – the biggest port of entry for sea arrivals – where a higher number of registrations are anticipated per month than in Hargeisa.
Dhlamini said IOM recognizes the importance of data collection in informing understanding of the ever-changing migration flows. “This important step forward, marking our valued partnership with NDRA, means that stakeholders will have accurate information to respond to the most vulnerable,” she said, adding: “The database is a key milestone in ensuring that  returnees to Somaliland are properly registered, which ultimately leads to access to services and enjoyment of rights.”
For more information, contact Sikhulile Dhlamini at IOM Hargeisa, Email: sngqase@iom.int, Tel: +2522571212

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34608-technology-allows-migrant-returnees-hargeisa-access-services




Date: 15 July 2019
Title: IOM Outraged By Somalia Terrorist Attack
Content: 15 July 2019
Geneva – The International Organization for Migration (IOM) has expressed its shock and outrage at Friday’s terrorist attack that claimed the lives of at least 26 people, one of whom worked under the auspices of the UN agency.

In addition to those killed, an estimated 40 people were injured in the seige on Asasey Hotel in the port city of Kismayo, where a high-level political meeting was taking place to discuss pending regional elections.
Islamist group al-Shabab has claimed the attack, described as its worst in Kismayo since the group was forced out in 2012.
IOM director-general António Vitorino said the organization is outraged by the brutal and unprovoked attack and stands with the friends and family of Abdifatah Mohamed. “Our deepest sympathies go to them,” he said in a statement.
Abdifatah was a victim in the attack – which began on Friday evening and ended on Saturday – along with prominent local journalist Hodan Nalayeh and her husband Farid, together with local politicians, Kenyans, Tanzanians, Americans, a Briton and a Canadian.
One of Abdifatah’s IOM contractor colleagues, who was also present, was injured in the attack.
The assault on Asasey which lasted for about 14 hours started when a suicide bomber rammed a car containing explosives into the hotel compound. Gunmen then stormed the building.
Dyane Epstein, IOM’s Chief of Mission in Somalia who worked with Abdifatah for nearly two years, said he made an immense contribution to peace and stabilization in Somalia. “Abdifatah meant a lot to all of us and was amongst the best and brightest.”


Link to original

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34609-iom-outraged-somalia-terrorist-attack




Date: 25 June 2019
Title: In Somalia, IOM Begins Relocating Families at Risk of Eviction
Content: 25 June 2019


Some 682 households, consisting of 3,914 individuals drawn from 12 out of 15 targeted IDP sites have been relocated to the new Baidoa public site as of 23 June, one week after relocation began. The effort will support internally displaced persons with better living conditions and sustainable land tenure. The relocation, expected to continue until July, will benefit over 1,000 households from 15 IDP sites.
In the months leading up to the relocation, IOM had developed the new public site together with the South West State authorities, the Baidoa municipality and the community.
“We recognize the rights of IDPs and Displacement Affected Communities (DACs) to own land and solve recurring problems such as evictions,” said Abdullahi Ali Watiin, the Mayor of Baidoa.
He added: “Our vision is to make sure that all our community members, regardless of their status, live on a decent protected land, without discrimination or fear of eviction.”
The city of Baidoa, in Somalia’s southwestern Bay region, hosts an estimated 323,000 displaced people, many of whom live on private land without secure tenure agreements. They are at constant risk of forced evictions.
The relocation project is a multi-sectoral integrated response from IOM’s emergency and durable solutions divisions. This approach focuses on addressing the immediate needs of the vulnerable IDPs at risk of eviction through solutions that are integrated in the long-term urban expansion plan of Baidoa City. Among others, the site planning has been coordinated with UN-Habitat to ensure that future and under-construction roads are incorporated and that the land allocated to IDPs meets long-term standards rather than recreating a camp-like setting.
To date, IOM has constructed 500 latrines and a sustainable water supply system including two elevated water tanks that will provide clean and safe water to the nearly 1,000 households.
In addition, two police stations have been constructed along with solar streetlights to enhance safety and security. Main roads leading to the nearest markets were also cleared for easy access and linkage with the host communities. The site plan also allows space for markets, community centres, and common service areas.
Aside from being provided with plots, the households also received vouchers to help them construct shelters of their choice. Through these vouchers, they can acquire the shelter materials that they need from selected vendors. The relocating households also received training from IOM on how to construct shelters, as well as to build shelters for 40 vulnerable households.
Rainer Palau Gonzalez, IOM’s Senior Programme Coordinator said, “The relocation is going according to schedule after months of preparation with the government and other partners. We will monitor the coming months carefully to ensure that the needs of the relocated households are met.”
“This has been a critical project in line with the Humanitarian-Development Nexus, which combines emergency humanitarian response with laying the foundations for durable solutions and development. Our partners, DFID, ECHO, JSB and OFDA, have been essential in supporting our project activities. We are very happy to finally be able to welcome the IDPs, especially those at risk of eviction, to this new site,” Gonzalez added.
In the coming weeks, IOM and other stakeholders will continue the relocation of the families at risk of eviction and provide them with all the support they need.
For more information, please contact the IOM Somalia Programme Support Unit, Tel: +254 705 832 020, Email: iomsomaliapsu@iom.int

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34610-somalia-iom-begins-relocating-families-risk-eviction




Date: 24 June 2019
Title: WHO and UNICEF Somalia and partners call on all Somalis to vaccinate children against polio
Content: 24 June 2019
Mogadishu - Health authorities rolled out a polio campaign yesterday in Puntland and Somaliland to vaccinate more than 940 000 children under 5 years of age to stop an ongoing outbreak of a strain of poliovirus.
The campaign runs from 24 to 27 June 2019, with support from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). It targets all children in 12 districts in Somaliland and 9 districts in Puntland.
By the numbers:
A vaccinator provides 2 doses of the oral polio vaccine to a young boy
Somaliland, Puntland and other states in Somalia are currently experiencing outbreaks of 2 strains of poliovirus. Each strain requires a different vaccine. Children need several doses of each vaccine to boost immunity. Even though these viruses are not wild poliovirus, both these circulating strains can infect and paralyse children with low immunity. The last case of wild poliovirus in Somalia was in August 2014.
“It’s vital that parents ensure their children receive this vaccine because it builds immunity against a specific strain of poliovirus circulating in the country. I call upon all caregivers in the areas being covered in this campaign to please ensure children are at home and accept the oral polio vaccine when it is offered. Oral polio vaccines are stored and administered safely, and can save children from paralysis and permanent disability,” said Dr Mamunur Rahman Malik, WHO Representative for Somalia.
“The only way to protect children from all polioviruses is to ensure they receive multiple doses of polio vaccine, through campaigns and health facilities where possible,” said Werner Schultink, UNICEF Somalia Representative. “Caregivers need to ensure children receive this vaccine when it is available.”
Somalia’s polio programme has conducted 14 immunization campaigns, including 5 nationwide campaigns, since December 2017 to stop further spread of the outbreaks. Despite these efforts, not all Somalia’s children are being vaccinated, which has resulted in the polioviruses spreading across the country and spilling over to Ethiopia. To address this, polio teams from Somalia and Ethiopia conducted a joint planning workshop in Hargeisa last week, and are coordinating immunization activities along their shared border and in high-risk areas in each country during this round in order to prevent cross-border transmission and spillover.
Concurrent to the polio campaign, polio health workers have also been working to vaccinate more than 650 000 people aged one year and above against cholera in high-risk districts of Somalia.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34369-who-and-unicef-somalia-and-partners-call-all-somalis-vaccinate-children-against-polio




Date: 23 June 2019
Title: IDP led social businesses win award for ideas developed under EU, UN and government led programme on displacement
Content: 23 June 2019

Ten teams pitched altogether during the event, which was the culmination of a 6-month social entrepreneurship training course for people in IDP communities, run under the RE-INTEG program. The three winning teams won a cash award for their ideas –a bakery in IDP communities, a bee farm and school selling honey, and a rug and mat business which is already up and running. It is aimed that the cash award will help them further develop their product and reach more customers.
Alongside those that pitched their ideas, over fifty teams from the course also showcased products in areas such as renewable energy, water and sanitation, food production, education and waste management. Two of the winning teams and almost fifty percent of those showcasing their products were women-led businesses.
Speaking at the event, Adur Adam, Deputy Director of the Humanitarian Aid and Human Rights Department of Banadir Regional Administration (B.R.A.), said the event was in line with Benadir Regional Administration’s strategy in addressing displacement.
“Under the B.R.A. strategy, the RE-INTEG Social Entrepreneurship Program is one of the best practices so far in building a long-term solution to displacement in Mogadishu,” he said.
The event was attended by representatives from UNDP, Mogadishu University, Benadir Regional Administration, the Somali Chamber of Commerce, Hormuud Foundation, the Somali Women’s Development Center (SWDC), as well as by a number of other civil society organizations and local academic institutions.  The judging panel was made up of experts from Mogadishu University, Simad University, the Somali Innovation and Development Organisation (SIDO), and Premier Bank.
Selene Biffi, UNDP Project Manager for the RE-INTEG programme, said the event showed that innovative social enterprises led by people from IDP communities can help economic development in Somalia.
“The IDPs who have presented their ideas today are showing that social entrepreneurship is not only possible in Somalia, but it is also an amazing opportunity for communities wishing to rebuild their social and economic fabric from within,” she said.
Zahra Mohamed, the Chairperson of the SWDC organization, said she was happy to see that two of the winning teams, and many of those showcasing their business ideas were led by women.
“Women can be the best social entrepreneurs in the market,” she said.
All of the teams who showcased and pitched during the event will be eligible to get financial support, through a EU funded grants scheme managed by UNDP under the RE-INTEG programme, and will take part in a RE-INTEG business incubator to get additional mentoring and professional support.
The RE-INTEG programme works to address displacement in Mogadishu through improving employment opportunities and access to housing and services. UNDP works in partnership with the Banadir Regional Administration, UN-Habitat, the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR), Somali Innovation and Development Organisation (SIDO), Cooperazione e Sviluppo (CESVI), and the Somali Women’s Development Centre (SWDC) to deliver the activities of the RE-INTEG.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19654-idp-led-social-businesses-win-award-ideas-developed-under-eu-un-and-government-led-programme




Date: 22 May 2019
Title: New Resident Representative for UNDP in Somalia, Mr. Jocelyn Mason, arrives in Mogadishu
Content: 22 May 2019
Mr. Mason’s career in development spans over 20 years, including as Country Director of UNDP Mozambique from 2008 to 2012, as Chief of Staff for UNDP’s Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery in 2012-2014 and as Directorate Manager for UNDP’s Bureau for Policy and Programme Support in 2014 to 2015, before taking up a position as Senior Deputy County Director (Programmes) with UNDP Afghanistan, followed by his role as acting Resident Representative there.
Prior to those roles he has worked in UNDP’s Partnership Bureau as Senior Adviser on multilateral financial institutions and earlier, as Public Administration Reform Advisor for UNDP’s Bureau for Development Policy. He has also worked extensively with the World Bank in Mozambique, Angola and Zambia, and in Eastern Europe.
Mr. Mason holds degrees in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and in International Relations and International Economics, from the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in Washington.
He will lead the UNDP country office on a portfolio of key development programmes which support the Government of Somalia, and Somali people, to meet national development priorities, and to respond to and build resilience to drought and climate crises.
Mr. Mason takes over the role from former UNDP Somalia Resident Representative, Mr. George Conway, who after six years in the role, was appointed as acting Deputy Special Representative of the UN Secretary- General (DSRSG), and acting UN Humanitarian and Resident Coordinator for Somalia, under the United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM).
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19655-new-resident-representative-undp-somalia-mr-jocelyn-mason-arrives-mogadishu




Date: 15 May 2019
Title: New UNICEF Representative in Somalia presents credentials
Content: 15 May 2019
MOGADISHU, Somalia, 15 May 2019

Welcoming Mr. Schultink to Somalia, the Minister said he looked forward to continuing the strong collaboration with UNICEF to help improve the lives of children and women in the nation.
“It is a great honour to be here in Somalia,” said the new UNICEF Representative. “I look forward to working closely with the Federal Government of Somalia in our shared mission to improve the lives of Somalia’s children. These children are the future of this country and it is imperative that we champion and uphold their child rights so that they can achieve their huge potential and also contribute back to their communities in a productive and meaningful way.”
Mr. Schultink, a national of the Netherlands, joined UNICEF in April 1999 and has held several senior positions including most recently, the UNICEF Representative in Kenya from July 2016-May 2019. Mr. Schultink was also the Chief of Nutrition at Headquarters in New York.
He has written extensively about nutrition issues in the developing world in both academic journals and specialized books. Before joining UNICEF, Mr. Schultink had extensive experience working with the German Agency for Technical Cooperation from 1990 to 1999.
The new Representative will play a critical role in steering the Somalia Country Office in realizing its commitment to children and their families in collaboration with the Government of Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/17923-new-unicef-representative-somalia-presents-credentials




Date: 15 May 2019
Title: FAO raises alarm over disastrous drought in Somalia where over 2 million people face severe hunger
Content: 15 May 2019
15 May 2019, Mogadishu/Rome -
The UN agency issued a special alert on Somalia, indicating that the number of hungry people in the country this year is expected to be 40 percent higher than estimates made at the beginning of 2019.
A deteriorating nutritional status is also of major concern, according to the alert. Acute malnutrition rates as well as the number of acutely malnourished children being admitted to therapeutic feeding centres have sharply increased in 2019.
"Rains in April and early May can make or break Somalis' food security for the whole year as they are crucial for the country's main annual harvest in July, following the "Gu" rainy season," said Mario Zappacosta, FAO Senior Economist and lead of the Global Information and Early Warning System (GIEWS).
"A significant lack of rains in April and early May has rendered dry and barren up to 85 percent of the croplands in the country's breadbaskets, and according to the latest projections, food grown during the "Gu" season is likely to be 50 percent below average," he added.
The latest projection is based on data gathered by FAO experts - including sophisticated analyses of rainfall, temperatures, water availability and vegetation health - that point to the worst drought in years. Some rains are expected in May, but these will be insufficient and arrive too late for crop and pasture recovery before the onset of the dry season.
For example, in Somalia's Lower Shabelle region, which produces more than 60 percent of maize grown during the "Gu" season, severe dryness has prevailed so far, with only some scattered, below-average rains occurring in late April and early May.
Drought conditions also affected other major crop producing areas, including the Bay region's "sorghum belt", which accounts for more than half of the country's sorghum production during the "Gu" season, and the "cowpea belt" in Middle Shabelle, Mudug and Galgaduud regions.
Drought takes a heavy toll on herders and their livestock
Poor rains since last October have also taken a heavy toll on herders and their livestock as vegetation has been drying up and water has been increasingly scarce.
The FAO alert warns of a worrying number of animals in very poor health conditions - due to low body weight and drought-induced diseases - in the country's central and northern regions.
"Herders in the worst drought-affected areas - such as central Galgaduud and in northern Bari and Sanaag regions - have been forced to slaughter the offspring of their goats and sheep as they don't have enough fodder and water for all their animals, and try to save the milk-producing female livestock," said FAO Somalia Representative Serge Tissot.
"Many herders have not been able to replace livestock lost during the 2017 drought that ravaged the country, so they already have less resources. Now, on top of that, as food and water become scarcer, they have to pay higher prices for trucked-in water and their daily food," added Tissot.
Action is needed now to prevent loss of lives
Drought and early depletion of food stocks, compounded by declining employment opportunities and low wages for farmers, shortages of livestock products in pastoral areas as well as both heightened conflict and a reduction of humanitarian assistance since early 2019 have all led to a sharp deterioration of the food security situation in the country.
FAO is scaling up its response to prevent an already alarming humanitarian situation from getting even worse. For this, FAO urgently needs more funds as it aims to support 2 million drought-affected people this year by providing critical livelihood support such as cash assistance, quality seeds, tools, and other agricultural services so farmers can make the most of the next planting season.
To protect their remaining livestock, herders require vital support such as water and supplementary feed. Countrywide animal health campaigns must also be rolled out quickly - starting with emergency livestock treatments to keep animals alive, healthy and productive.
Currently, FAO has a funding gap of about $115 million in Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/17925-fao-raises-alarm-over-disastrous-drought-somalia-where-over-2-million-people-face-severe




Date: 30 April 2019
Title: Set of milestones to meet Somalia’s obligations under environmental conventions agreed at a high-level meeting in Mogadishu
Content: 30 April 2019
The three-day meeting was attended by federal and federal member state officials, civil society organisations and UN representatives, and was organised by the Directorate of the Environment of the Office of the Prime Minister, with the support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Global Environmental Facility (GEF).
In his opening remarks, Deputy Prime Minister Guled highlighted the importance of inter-governmental coordination on environmental issues, and reiterated his government’s commitment to address climate change and environmental destruction.
“Our Government is prioritising the environment in its development plans and we will focus on environmental problems, including; climate change, deforestation, wildlife extinction, loss of biodiversity, waste management, overfishing and marine conservation,” he said.
During discussions over the three days, attendees at the meeting carried out an in-depth analysis of current policy and legal frameworks for environmental governance in Somalia. They also assessed the country’s ability to meet the Rio Conventions targets, before agreeing a set of roadmap milestones to integrate the Rio Conventions at the federal and federal member state level, and in environmental policies.
The milestones included gender-responsive national targets for biodiversity conservation, sustainable land use and climate change adaptation; the passing of an environmental bill for mandatory environmental impacts assessments, and compliance to environmental quality standards; and implementing projects for community based natural resources management.
Achievement against these milestones will be monitored regularly as part of a government led project on environmental governance, which is supported by UNDP and GEF.
Abdul Qadir, Climate Change and Resilience Portfolio Manager for UNDP Somalia, said setting strong foundations and milestones for environmental management was critical in protecting the environment, and ensuring the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) could be met in Somalia.
“UNDP will continue to support the federal government and federal member states on coordinated actions to address impacts of climate change, and reverse environmental damage, so that Somalia can meet its obligations as a signatory to the Rio Conventions,” Mr. Qadir said.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19656-set-milestones-meet-somalia%E2%80%99s-obligations-under-environmental-conventions-agreed-high-level




Date: 09 April 2019
Title: Somaliland Parliament meets to discuss achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030
Content: 09 April 2019

The event was attended by parliamentarians and Somaliland Local Government Institute (LGI) representatives, as well as by the officials from the Somaliland Ministry of Planning.  It aimed to increase knowledge and coordination between parliament and government ministries on the 2030 agenda.
The meeting was supported by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), under a project that works with the Somaliland government to build the capacity of the parliament to enact legislation, and to ensure effective and inclusive implementation of the SDGs. The project is part of a broader regional UNDP Arab States programme called ‘Parliaments for Agenda 2030’, which has been developed in partnership with the Islamic Development Bank.
In his opening speech, Hon. Abdirahman Mohamed Jama, the Deputy Chair of the Social Affairs Committee of the Somaliland House of Representatives, highlighted the need for parliamentarians to deepen their awareness of the SDGs and to play an active role in achieving the 2030 Goals.
“It is important that we align to the Susatainable Development Goals when we are enacting laws that will have an impact on the lives of people,” he said.
In his remarks, Masoud Ali, UNDP Project Officer for the Parliament Support Project, said parliaments were key to making sure the Goals were achieved in each country by 2030.
“Parliamentarians have legitimate power to ensure all government plans are in line with the global SDGs, and they have the right to question  government officials about progress made on SDG targets. They have a role to play in ensuring transparency and accountability in the implementation of the Goals,” he said.
The event will be followed by a self-assessment exercise on the capacity of the Somaliland parliament to achieve the Goals by 2030. It is aimed that the assessment exercise, together with the recommendations from the Hargeisa meeting, will then lead to the development of a draft Somaliland parliament strategy on the SDGs.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19658-somaliland-parliament-meets-discuss-achievement-sustainable-development-goals-sdgs-2030




Date: 07 April 2019
Title: Sixth group of UNDP sponsored law students graduate from Puntland State University
Content: 07 April 2019
7 April 2019, Garowe. A sixth group of UNDP sponsored law students have graduated from Puntland State University School of Law this month, following completion of a four-year Bachelor of Law programme. The twenty students, who began the programme in 2014 and completed their studies in October 2018,  graduated in a ceremony alongside over 180 fellow graduates at the beginning of April.
The Shariah & Law Scholarship Program for Puntland State University was established in 2008 with the technical and financial support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Somalia. The scholarship programme aimed to create a pool of competent and well trained legal professionals from across Somalia that could build the capacity of the justice sector, which at the time had very few lawyers, judges or prosecutors with formal legal education. The first batch of twenty-three students, which included seven women, completed the 4-year degree programme in 2013.
The scholarship programme is open to men and women from across Somalia and is merit-based, with applicants having to pass their secondary school leaving certificate and an interview process. Including the sixth group of students graduating this year, the UNDP scholarship programme has supported 176 students to graduate with a degree in Law from the university, with over 50 percent of previous graduates finding employment in the legal, political and justice systems, as well as in private businesses and international and local NGOs.
Speaking at the graduation ceremony, Puntland Vice President Ahmed Elmi Osman wished the men and women graduating a bright future, and encouraged them to use their knowledge to benefit Somalia. “Today is an historic day.  There is pride and self-esteem in remaining here in Somalia and using your knowledge to help this country,” he said.
The Speaker of the Puntland Parliament, Abdihakim Mohamed Ahmed, said job opportunities and work experience was key to the success of the those graduating.
“I note with pride that previous graduates from this programme are already working for the Parliament,” he said.
Musa Duale Aden, Officer in Charge (OIC) for the UNDP area office in Garowe, said UNDP was honoured to continue supporting young law students through the graduate programme, and highlighted the number of women graduating.
“Over forty women have taken part in the scholarship programme since it began. The scholarships project has enabled Puntland to move from having one female lawyer in 2012 to 46 female legal professionals in 2019. Seven women were also appointed as female regional prosecutors in 2016,” he said.
“This is a great contribution to the judiciary and legal system in Puntland and for gender equality, but we hope more women will take part in these programmes,” he added.
It is expected that a further twenty UNDP sponsored scholarship students will graduate from Puntland State University Law Programme over the next two years.
The scholarship programme at Puntland State University is supported by UNDP under a UN Joint Justice Programme, which supports the Government of Somalia to increase access to justice and strengthen rule of law across Somalia. The scholarship is funded by the European Union and governments of Netherlands and Sweden.
Contacts:
Doel Murkejee, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Somalia Rule of Law Portfolio Manager. Email: doel.murkejee@undp.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19659-sixth-group-undp-sponsored-law-students-graduate-puntland-state-university




Date: 06 April 2019
Title: IOM To Relocate Internally Displaced Persons at Risk of Eviction in Baidoa
Content: 06 April 2019

Consider the city of Baidoa, the capital of Somalia’s South West State, where thousands of internally displaced persons are under constant threat of eviction. Baidoa currently hosts more than 323,000 displaced people, many of whom live on private land without secure tenure agreements.
“Everyone deserves stability and a place to put down their roots,” said IOM Somalia Chief of Mission Dyane Epstein. “IDPs are particularly vulnerable and this move will enable families and communities to build a strong foundation for a better future.”
The International Organization for Migration (IOM) has been leading an effort to provide a more durable solution to displacement in Baidoa by planning to relocate some 24,000 IDPs at risk of eviction to public sites in coming months. One crucial early step: the South West State government has provided public land for the displaced. A taskforce was established by the government and is coordinated by the Camp Coordination and Camp Management Cluster to ensure efficient development and subsequent relocation of displaced families who are at risk of eviction. Humanitarian and development actors have been working together to ensure the readiness of basic services, police stations, and the site’s connectivity to the urban centre.
“This effort by the authorities in Baidoa and South West State is vital to ensuring that displaced people in Baidoa live in dignified conditions until they wish to return to their home areas, or integrate into the local community,” said Rainer Gonzalez, IOM’s Senior Programmes Coordinator.
Maalim Osman, a community leader, agreed. ‘‘I came to Baidoa a year and a half ago and I have been evicted twice—while still facing the same risk,” he explained. “Every night as I sleep on my makeshift shelter, I worry a lot – not on where the next meal will come from, but when the next eviction will be.”
According to the Housing, Land and Property Sub- Cluster, more than 11,900 individuals were evicted in Baidoa without proper notice this year between January and March. The increasing evictions have been attributed to sprawling urbanization. The turmoil also contributes to a spike in local demand which in turn raises the value of Baidoa’s accessible land.
An eviction risk assessment conducted in February by humanitarian partners revealed that 48 out of the 391 IDP sites hosting 5,170 households in Baidoa were at very high risk of eviction and 117 IDP sites hosting 12,697 households were at high risk.  Discussions and community consultations were held with the local leaders and communities from these 48 IDP to identify those who would be interested in being relocated.
Of the 48 IDP sites involved, residents from 15 of them showed willingness to be relocated.
This effort began last October when IOM received funding support from European Civil Protection And Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO), the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID) and the United States Government’s Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA). Together with those stakeholders, IOM launched development of this donated land in partnership with UN HABITAT and the local authorities.
On 7 April, IOM along with other partners and government representatives, accompanied community representatives from the 15 IDP sites to the public site for a “Go and See visit”. Communities were shown the site and services available, including the security posts, plot sizes, water collection points, and lockable household latrines. “Relocation is voluntary,” said IOM’s Kathryn Ziga, the CCCM Cluster Coordinator. “If they like what they see, they can decide to move.”
Osman, for one, is ready. “Today, as I stand here at the public site, my worry is over. I can’t wait to settle on a plot to call home and my own.’’

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34611-iom-relocate-internally-displaced-persons-risk-eviction-baidoa




Date: 01 April 2019
Title: Final consultation on key local government law takes place in Hargeisa
Content: 01 April 2019

1 April 2019, Hargeisa. A final consultation on a key local government law, called the “District and Regions Self-Administration Law”, has been held in Hargeisa, to ensure the law will be compliant with existing policies that guide decentralisation of government, and to ensure delivery of services to Somali people at community, village and district level.
The “District and Regions Self-Administration Law” is one of the main legal frameworks that will set out how local government can deliver decentralised services to communities at a local level. In 2018, the Office of the Solicitor General and the Ministry of Interior of Somaliland, with the support of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), implemented a review on the law to identify the existing gaps, and to propose possible amendments to ensure the law is in line with existing decentralisation policy.
The consultation in Hargeisa, which took place at the end of March, was the last in a series of consultation processes to ensure feedback on the law, and follows a consultation with Mayors in January. The March meeting aimed to get feedback from key Somaliland Government ministries and from women and youth focused civil society organisations, before the law goes to Parliament for debate and approval.
The meeting was facilitated by the Somaliland parliamentary sub-committee on the Interior, Security and Defence, with support from UNDP, under a UN Joint Programme on Local Governance and Decentralised Service Delivery (JPLG).
Ministries attending the meeting highlighted the need to align the law to existing laws which support service delivery, and also welcomed amendments to the law which will allow ministries and government agencies to open district level administration offices.
Speaking during the meeting, the Chairperson of Somaliland’s parliamentary sub-committee on the Interior, Security and Defence, Abdillahi Hussein Igeh (Balaaki), said the consultations on the law were key to ensuring the law was transparent.
“It is in the Somaliland constitution to be transparent and consultative in every law or act that the legislators are going to develop or amend. We promise that all your feedback will be considered in the parliamentary debate on the Law,” he said.
The Vice Minister of the Ministry of Interior, Mohamed Muse Diriye, said the amendment and approval of the law was a collective responsibility.
“We have together put a lot of efforts and resources on this process. We have now reached the last steps to put the law in front of the parliament and get it approved,” he said.
It is expected the amended Law will go for approval in the Somaliland parliament in the next few weeks.
The UN Joint Programme on Local Governance is implemented by UNDP, UNCDF, UNICEF, UNHABITAT, and ILO, in partnership with the Somaliland Government, and with funding from Denmark, the European Union, Norway, Switzerland, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and USAID.
Contacts:
Peter Vanderpol, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Project Manager, UN Joint Programme on Local Governance (JPLG). Email: petrus.vanderpol@undp.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19660-final-consultation-key-local-government-law-takes-place-hargeisa




Date: 31 March 2019
Title: Vice President of Hirshabelle launches joint UN and Government project to address displacement
Content: 31 March 2019
Jowhar, Hirshabelle, 31 March 2019.  The Vice President of Hirshabelle, Ali Abdullahi Hussein (Ali Guudlaawe), has launched a joint Government and UN project, called Midnimo II, which will work to support livelihoods and access to housing for displaced communities in the Federal Somali State.
Midnimo-II aims to support the Government of Somalia to provide long term, durable solutions to displacement across Hirshabelle and Galmadug. It is the second phase of the Midnimo project, expanding on the success of Midnimo I which focused on Jubaland, South West State and Balcad in Hirshabelle. It is funded by the United Nations Peace Building Fund, as part of the UN’s ongoing work to build peace and stability in Somalia.
The project is part of a five-project portfolio funded by the UN Peacebuilding Fund, that was launched in Mogadishu by the Federal Ministry of Interior, Federal Affairs and Reconciliation, with the support of United Nations Integrated Office in Somalia.
The launch of the project in Hirshabelle was attended by officials from the Office of the President of Hirshabelle and from a number of Hirshabelle government ministries.  Representatives from NGOs, civil society, youth sectors and from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and United Nations Assistance Mission in Somalia (UNSOM) also attended the event.  The Hirshabelle component of the project is coordinated by the state’s Inter-Ministerial Committee which is chaired by Hirshabelle President H.E Mohamed Abdi Waare.
Speaking during the Hirshabelle project launch, Vice President Ali Abdullahi Hussein emphasized the need to work together to address the root causes of displacement. “We must ensure a dignified and voluntary return, and local integration of IDPs (Internally Displaced Persons). The Midnimo-II project plays an important role in this,” he said.
According to the Somalia Humanitarian Needs Overview for 2019, there are 2.6 million internally displaced people and 131,200 refugees and refugee returnees across Somalia, with 80 percent of the displaced population living in urban areas.
As a result of such a large population moving into urban centres, existing infrastructure has become insufficient to meet the demand, leaving vulnerable populations at higher risk, in particular leaving women and children at risk of exploitation and abuse due to lack of access to income and basic services.
To address these needs project aims to support IDP and host communities to identify and drive solutions to displacement through community interaction and input on the project activities. It will be implemented by the Governments of Hirshabelle and Galmadug and the Federal Ministry of the Interior, Federal Affairs and Reconciliation, in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), and UN-Habitat.
The joint activities of the three UN agencies is part of a one UN approach to addressing development challenges in Somalia. UNDP will work to support livelihoods and employment, as well as public-private partnerships and markets, for better job opportunities for people in displaced and host communities.  IOM will facilitate community engagement on project priorities and on building social cohesion and stability within communities. IOM will also support the establishment of a social accountability mechanism to ensure services reach all members of a community, including vulnerable community members.
UN-Habitat will work with local government to improve land management and land legislation, and to build the capacities of local government to carry out effective town planning and improvement of settlements. The UN human settlements agency will also support the construction of infrastructure projects prioritized by IDP and host communities.
Following the successful start of the project in Hirshabelle, Midnimo II will be launched in Galmudug in May-June 2019.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19657-vice-president-hirshabelle-launches-joint-un-and-government-project-address-displacement




Date: 16 March 2019
Title: Minister Deqa Yasin Presents Women's Charter at 63rd Commission on the Status of Women event in New York
Content: 16 March 2019
16 March 2019, New York. At the 63rd Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) in New York on Friday, Somalia’s Federal Minister of Women and Human Rights Development, H.E. Deqa Yasin, presented a Women’s Charter for Somalia, that calls for fifty percent representation of women in government, and in socio-economic sectors in the country. The Charter also calls for greater protection of women’s rights, and prevention of sexual and gender-based violence, including female genital mutilation (FGM).
The Charter was presented by Minister Yasin at a side event of the CSW led by the Ministry of Women and Human Rights Development and co-chaired by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the Canadian Government.
Speaking during her presentation the Minister said the Women’s Charter and its acceptance by the government of Somalia was a milestone for women and girls in her country.
“The demands of the Women’s Charter are ambitious, and rightly so. To ensure they become a reality, we must invest in a real way in the future of women and girls. By doing so we will create a bright future for a peaceful and resilient Somalia.”
The Women’s Charter was developed during a three-day Women’s Convention in Mogadishu on 4-6 March, which was attended by 350 female and male gender champions from across Somalia. The event was led by the Ministry of Women and Human Rights Development together with Somalia’s Federal and Federal Member State governments, and Somali civil society organisations.  The Convention was supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), UN Women, and the Somalia Stability Fund.
The development of the Women’s Charter comes at a time when the provisional Constitution of Somalia is undergoing a review process, and as key electoral, security and political laws are being developed in the country. It has also taken place in advance of universal suffrage (one-person-one-vote) elections, scheduled to take place across Somalia in 2020-2021.
The fifty percent women’s representation outlined in the Charter includes all three levels of government, including elected and appointed officials in the public and private sector. The document also calls for zero tolerance towards sexual and gender-based violence and for women’s rights to be enshrined in the revised Constitution, and in the finalised electoral, security and political laws. Socio-economic rights in the form of equal access to economic opportunities and technologies, are also a key call in the document. The Charter affirms that such equal access will help build resilience and stability in Somalia.
Anou Borrey, Senior Gender Advisor for UNDP Somalia said UNDP, together with its UN partners, was fully committed to integrating the principles of the Women Charter across all of its interventions in Somalia.
“The joint commitment by Somali women from across Somalia, is crucial in advancing an inclusive peace and development process, which is needed to attain the Sustainable Development Goals and a prosperous future for the country,” she said.
Michael Callan, Director of the Conflict Prevention, Stabilization and Peacebuilding Division (IRZ) of Global Affairs Canada, said Canada supported the positive step being taken by Somalia to address gender equality with the development of the Women’s Charter, and the Charter’s call for the full inclusion of women across the political, economic and social spectrum in Somalia. “Canada firmly believes that promoting rights-based, open and inclusive societies where all people, regardless of their gender, can fully benefit from equal participation in economic, political, social and cultural life, is an effective way to build a safer and more prosperous world,” he said.
Ends
Media Contacts:
Ahmed Elmie, Communications Advisor, Ministry of Women and Human Rights Development, Federal Government of Somalia. Email: ahmed.elmie@gmail.com
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19661-minister-deqa-yasin-presents-womens-charter-63rd-commission-status-women-event-new-york




Date: 15 March 2019
Title: Immigration Officers Learn How to Work Through a Humanitarian Crisis
Content: 15 March 2019

Against this background, the UN Migration Agency IOM on 19-21 February conducted training for 25 Somaliland officers based in Hargeisa and Berbera. The training was part of the Better Migration Management (BMM) programme. This is a regional, multi-year and multi-partner programme funded by the EU Trust Fund for Africa and the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ). BMM aims to improve migration management in the Horn of Africa.
The three-day training in humanitarian border management and human rights was aimed at providing the officers with the skills they need to understand border agencies’ role in managing migration crisis situations. This included how to prepare, coordinate, respond to as well as how to protect migrants caught in a crisis as they cross national borders.
The training emphasized the importance of upholding humane governance at the border during situations of increased pressure.
Among the topics covered was understanding the concept of humanitarian border management, the migration crisis operational framework, contingency planning and what steps border agencies needed to take before, during and after a migration crisis.
Also covered was an understanding of the responsibilities of the state, the international legal frameworks to apply, including international human rights law, humanitarian law and refugee protocols. The immigration officers were also taught how to identify and how to assist vulnerable migrants, along with how to register undocumented migrants.
Deputy Director of Immigration in Somaliland Colonel Mohamed Saleban spoke at the close of the training, saying: “The humanitarian border management trainings and introduction of mobile registration equipment provided by BMM are very valuable assets to our immigration response in emergency situations.”
IOM is one of the main implementing partners alongside UNODC, GIZ, Expertise France, Italian Department of Public Security, CIVIPOL, GIZ and the British Council who are implementing BMM. Apart from Somala, the programme also covers Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, South Sudan, Sudan and Uganda.
For more information please contact the IBM Programme Manager Mr. Michael Doherty at IOM Somalia, Email: mjdoherty@iom.int

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34612-immigration-officers-learn-how-work-through-humanitarian-crisis




Date: 12 March 2019
Title: New UNFPA Representative to Somalia presents credentials
Content: 12 March 2019

The Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, His Excellency Ahmed Isse Awad received Mr. Thomsen’s accreditation letter.
During the meeting, His Excellency and Mr. Thomsen discussed the ways and means to further enhance the partnership between UNFPA and the Government of Somalia in the areas of maternal health, population and development, gender and youth.
Mr. Thomsen pledged continued support in investing in a safer and brighter future for Somali mothers and children and in programmes that can yield enormous dividends for sustainable development in Somalia.
“We are recommitting to work hand in hand with the Federal Republic of Somalia to ensure that the number and rate of women dying from complications of pregnancy or childbirth has been reduced, families are healthier and young people are more connected and empowered than ever before,” said Mr. Thomsen
The new UNFPA Representative to Somalia took the opportunity to invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to lead a strong delegation to the Nairobi Summit, a high-level conference to advance the implementation of the ICPD Programme of Action. The conference to take place from 12 to 14 November, 2019 will offer an inclusive platform, bringing together governments, UN agencies, civil society, private sector organizations, women’s groups and youth networks to discuss and agree on actions to accelerate the implementation of the ICPD Programme of Action. The Nairobi Summit will help to rally a broad coalition of stakeholders to protect the gains made and advance the ICPD agenda to ensure that no one is left behind.
UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, is the United Nations reproductive health and rights agency. Its mission is to deliver a world where every pregnancy is wanted, every childbirth is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled.
UNFPA's support to Somalia began in the 1970s. The third Country Programme commenced in 2018 and will end in 2020. UNFPA works closely with the Government line ministries and UN agencies to contribute to national development goals and towards the improvement of the overall quality of life of Somali people.
Mr. Thomsen has more than 25 years of experience in Development and Humanitarian Assistance, with a commitment to promoting Human Right, Reproductive Health and Poverty Reduction. In the fast five years, he has served as UNFPA Representative to Palestine with a focus on tackling Humanitarian and Development challenges related to Population Dynamics, Youth, Reproductive Health and combating Gender-Based Violence. He is a national of Denmark.

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/33501-new-unfpa-representative-somalia-presents-credentials




Date: 08 March 2019
Title: Women’s Charter for Somalia issued at three day Somali Women’s Convention
Content: 08 March 2019

8 March 2019, Mogadishu. A landmark Women’s Charter for Somalia has been issued by delegates at a three-day Somali Women’s Convention, which took place in Mogadishu this week. The Convention was led by the Ministry of Women and Human Rights Development, in partnership with Federal and Federal Member State governments and with civil society organisations.
The Women’s Charter issued at the Convention calls for full inclusion of women across the political, economic and social spectrum in Somalia. It comes as the Constitution of Somalia is undergoing a review process and as key electoral and political laws are being developed.
In particular the Charter calls for at fifty per cent quota across all three levels of government, including in the security sector, and in public administration. It also calls for zero tolerance for gender based violence and for women’s rights to be enshrined in the revised Constitution, and in the finalised electoral, security and political laws.
Socio-economic rights in the form of women’s equal access to land, and to economic opportunities and technologies, to ensure long term resilience and stability, is also a key call in the document.
Inputs to the Charter were given over the three days of the Convention by 300 delegates from federal and federal member states governments, women and youth group representatives, disability organisations, private sector organisations and members of academia from across the federal member states.
The event was attended by the First Lady of Somalia, Her Excellency Saynab Abdi Moalim, the Mayor of Mogadishu Abdirahman Osman, and the Prime Minister of Somalia, Hassan Ali Khaire, as well as federal and federal member state Ministers and Members of Parliament. The Chairperson of the National Independent Electoral Commission, Halima Ibrahim Ismail, also attended the event.
Presenting the Charter to Prime Minister Khaire, the Minister of Women and Human Rights Development, Hon. Deqa Yasin, highlighted both the inclusive nature of convention and the importance of topics discussed in the development of the charter.
“If women are supported in the areas that are mentioned in the charter, you will be contributing to sustainable peace is this country, and for the first time the women of this nation will feel as part and parcel of decision making in this country,” she said.
Prime Minister Khaire said he would work with his Government to carry out the Charter, and called for an action plan for its implementation.
“We need to integrate gender and human rights in the work of all ministries. That is why it is important for each minister to play a role in the implementation of the Charter,” he said.
“I ask the Minister of Women and Human Rights, and her staff, to come up with an action plan to carry out the recommendations set out in the Charter, so that it can be included in the next budget of the country,” he added.
The Somali led Women’s Convention was partially supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), UN Women, and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) as well as by the Somalia Stability Fund (SSF).
Speaking at the opening of the Convention, the Deputy Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia and UN Resident Coordinator, Peter de Clercq, said he very much welcomed the Women’s Charter and the consultative and inclusive nature of the event.
“I hope that this will be a rallying ground for the women of this country, for women parliamentarians, and for women of influence to be able to move the cause of women forward.”
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Resident Representative, a.i., for Somalia, George Conway, congratulated the Ministry and the Government in bringing together diverse representatives from the Federal Government, federal member states, the private sector, civil society, and women’s organisations.
“I would like to reiterate UNDP’s and the UN’s commitment and support to this process and to women’s empowerment, inclusion and gender equality in Somalia,” he said.
Contacts:
Keelin FitzGerald, Communication Specialist, United Nations Development Programme Somalia. Tel: +252 619 505004. Email: keelin.fitzgerald@undp.org
Olga Cherevko, Strategic Communication and Coordination Officer, Integrated Office of the UN Resident Coordinator for Somalia. Email: cherevko@un.org
Patterson Siema,  Regional Communications Specialist , UN Women. Tel: +254725058820, Email:patterson.siema@unwomen.org
Pilirani Semu-Banda, Ms., Communications, Partnerships & Donor Relations Specialist, United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Somalia Country Office. Tel:  +254 734500439. Email: semu-banda@unfpa.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19662-women%E2%80%99s-charter-somalia-issued-three-day-somali-women%E2%80%99s-convention




Date: 28 February 2019
Title: International legal aid expert delivers training to Somali legal and justice teams
Content: 28 February 2019
25 February 2019, Mogadishu. Thirty legal and justice professionals from across Somalia have taken part in a first of a kind three-day training on legal aid, which was delivered by international legal expert David McQuoid Mason, Professor of Law at the Centre for Socio-Studies, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban.
Judges, lawyers, NGO legal aid practitioners, representatives from civil society, government officials, and legal academics from across Federal Member States and the Benadir region, attended the training, which covered international legal aid best practice and policy, and how it can be applied in a Somali context.
The training was led by the Federal Ministry of Justice, with the support of the United Nations Development Programme, and with funding from the EU, Sweden and Netherlands.

Speaking at the event, the Minister of Justice, Hassan Hussein Haji, said the delivery of effective services such as legal aid to the people was important. “I encourage justice sectors at the federal and state levels to double their efforts to increase access to justice to the citizens, and likewise to ensure those working in justice have the proper training,” he said.
The workshop also aimed to provide guidance on how to develop existing Somali legal aid policy further, using global best practice and international legal aid guidelines, and to assist the government, judiciary and independent legal aid practitioners, in drafting a legal aid Act that could regulate free legal services, and ensure they can be delivered to more people across the country.
Professor McQuoid Mason, speaking after the training, said buy in and consultation was a core part of policy and legislation development globally.
“In this workshop, I’ve got ideas from the people attending here first, and then we explored international practice, and then we try and combine the two. So hopefully people will go back and share what they have learnt here.”
He added that government visibility through services such as legal aid was key to stability, and that laws should adhere to human rights standards.
“In Somalia, because of shortage of resources, you have to use all the structures. You can use traditional structures to [deliver legal aid], but traditional leaders and religious leaders must apply traditional and religious law that is consistent with the provisions of the Constitution and fundamental human rights. And for stability there must be equality, justice reform, and that the government is visible as a caring organisation in rural areas, and regarded as a caring organisation not solely as a ‘prosecutorial agency’ consisting of the police, prosecutors and prisons."
Ibrahim Abdullahi Aden, a Senior Advisor with the Ministry of Justice, said the Ministry would take the inputs from the training back to incorporate them into the legal documents. He added that legal aid was vital in Somalia where there were a number of civil and criminal cases that Somali people cannot afford to deal with on their own.
“We have a high poverty rate, and we need to help our people get access to legal support,” he said.
The legal aid training was delivered under a UN Joint Justice Programme, that works to increase access to justice for Somali people, in particular vulnerable and marginalised groups and people in rural communities.  The programme is funded by the European Union, Sweden and the Netherlands.
ENDS
Contacts:
Doel Mukerjee, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Programme Manager, UN Joint Rule of Law Programme Somalia. Email: doel.mukerjee@undp.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19663-international-legal-aid-expert-delivers-training-somali-legal-and-justice-teams




Date: 27 February 2019
Title: National employment policy for Somalia finalized
Content: 27 February 2019
The Ministry of Labour & Social Affairs (MoLSA) has finalized the draft National Employment Policy for Somalia in an extended tripartite Steering Committee meeting held in Mogadishu today. The Policy is designed with technical support provided by the International Labour Organization (ILO) under a Joint UN Project on Youth Employment in Somalia (JP-YES).

The Employment Policy lays out a strong foundation to provide sustainable employment opportunities for the Somali population, said the Federal Minister for Labour & Social Affairs, Mr Salah Jama. He said that 70% Somali population is less than 35 years of age and they need active policies and programmes to engage them in nation building and productive activities – and save them from falling into anti-social activities. The Minister reaffirmed his commitment that the Policy will be implemented with aspirational objective of social dialogue and tripartite consultation. The Minister also reaffirmed that the Policy will be implemented through a National Employment Programme with the support of UN Agencies. He appreciated the inputs provided by Employers, workers and many experienced officials from his Ministry. He emphasized on the private sector that the Policy demands a major contribution from them to enhance employment opportunities. Finally, he emphasized on importance of data and labour market analysis for sound employment policies and affirmed that the Government will institutionalize regular Labour Force data collection.

ILO Employment Specialist Mr Luca Fedi elaborated the salient features of the National Employment Policy and identified ways for its implementation to enhance employment outcomes for the Somali population.

The Employment Policy focuses on three priority areas, i.e., strengthening private sector and promoting micro-, small-, and medium-enterprises; supporting productive economic sectors for job-creation; and strengthening labour market governance. The policy adequately covers all relevant areas including focus on vulnerable segments of society and inclusion of women, youth, IDPs and persons with disabilities.

Earlier, the Deputy Minister for Labour & Social Affairs, Mr Swaqar Ibrahim Abdullahi inaugurated the tripartite steering committee and welcomed all participants to the meeting. He highlighted the level of effort gone into the process for developing National Employment Policy – with a focus on inclusivity, participation and ownership by the relevant stakeholders of Somalia. This makes the policy Somali-owned and Somali-led. He appreciated the technical support provided by ILO and other stakeholders.

During the Steering Committee, tripartite stakeholders emphasized on developing friendly regulations for private sector development, favorable fiscal policy and access to finance for expanding business activities. For SME development, participants recommended to ensure ease of doing business, ensure protection of local products against foreign / imported products; adopting innovation in business processes; and enhancing capacity of young workers. For improving labour market governance, the meeting agreed to establish a National Employment Council and an inter-ministerial Employment Committee; establish sector-specific Associations; and institutionalize labour force survey and other surveys to understand labour market demands.

The National Employment Policy will open up opportunities for Somali population – particularly youth, women and vulnerable groups, to access decent employment opportunities.
Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34368-national-employment-policy-somalia-finalized




Date: 27 February 2019
Title: National employment policy for Somalia finalized
Content: 27 February 2019
ILO News (Mogadishu): The Ministry of Labour & Social Affairs (MoLSA) has finalized the draft National Employment Policy for Somalia in an extended tripartite Steering Committee meeting held in Mogadishu today. The Policy is designed with technical support provided by the International Labour Organization (ILO) under a Joint UN Project on Youth Employment in Somalia (JP-YES).

The Employment Policy lays out a strong foundation to provide sustainable employment opportunities for the Somali population, said the Federal Minister for Labour & Social Affairs, Mr Salah Jama. He said that 70% Somali population is less than 35 years of age and they need active policies and programmes to engage them in nation building and productive activities – and save them from falling into anti-social activities. The Minister reaffirmed his commitment that the Policy will be implemented with aspirational objective of social dialogue and tripartite consultation. The Minister also reaffirmed that the Policy will be implemented through a National Employment Programme with the support of UN Agencies. He appreciated the inputs provided by Employers, workers and many experienced officials from his Ministry. He emphasized on the private sector that the Policy demands a major contribution from them to enhance employment opportunities. Finally, he emphasized on importance of data and labour market analysis for sound employment policies and affirmed that the Government will institutionalize regular Labour Force data collection.

ILO Employment Specialist Mr Luca Fedi elaborated the salient features of the National Employment Policy and identified ways for its implementation to enhance employment outcomes for the Somali population.

The Employment Policy focuses on three priority areas, i.e., strengthening private sector and promoting micro-, small-, and medium-enterprises; supporting productive economic sectors for job-creation; and strengthening labour market governance. The policy adequately covers all relevant areas including focus on vulnerable segments of society and inclusion of women, youth, IDPs and persons with disabilities.

Earlier, the Deputy Minister for Labour & Social Affairs, Mr Swaqar Ibrahim Abdullahi inaugurated the tripartite steering committee and welcomed all participants to the meeting. He highlighted the level of effort gone into the process for developing National Employment Policy – with a focus on inclusivity, participation and ownership by the relevant stakeholders of Somalia. This makes the policy Somali-owned and Somali-led. He appreciated the technical support provided by ILO and other stakeholders.

During the Steering Committee, tripartite stakeholders emphasized on developing friendly regulations for private sector development, favorable fiscal policy and access to finance for expanding business activities. For SME development, participants recommended to ensure ease of doing business, ensure protection of local products against foreign / imported products; adopting innovation in business processes; and enhancing capacity of young workers. For improving labour market governance, the meeting agreed to establish a National Employment Council and an inter-ministerial Employment Committee; establish sector-specific Associations; and institutionalize labour force survey and other surveys to understand labour market demands.

The National Employment Policy will open up opportunities for Somali population – particularly youth, women and vulnerable groups, to access decent employment opportunities.
For more information, please contact: Syed Saad Hussain Gilani, Head, ILO Somalia Office; Cell # 061-3694303: E-mail: saad@ilo.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/38819-national-employment-policy-somalia-finalized




Date: 21 February 2019
Title: The revised Labour Code for Somalia was finalized
Content: 21 February 2019
Mogadishu (ILO News): The revised Labour Code for Somalia was finalized in a 2-day tripartite workshop held in Mogadishu on 20-21 February 2019. Representatives from various Ministries of the Federal Government of Somalia, all Federal Member States, Employers, Workers, and academia adopted a consensus draft of the Labour Code and agreed to send it to the Parliament for legislation – after necessary procedures.

The draft Labour Code to revise the 1972 Labour Code has been developed by the Ministry of Labour & Social Affairs (MoLSA) in collaboration with the International Labour Organization (ILO). The process for revision took many months to complete – after getting ample feedback and inputs from all stakeholders including the Government (Federal and Federal Member States), Employers, Workers, UN Agencies, Donors and civil society organizations over a period of almost two years. The final draft is not only aligned with the Somalia’s economic and social context – but also complies with the International Labour Standards and other UN Conventions ratified by the Government of Somalia.

On the occasion of finalizing the Labour Code, the Federal Minister for Labour & Social Affairs (MoLSA), Mr Salah Jama, thanked ILO for extending the technical support for revising the Labour Code and also thanked all participants of the workshop for their ample feedback. He emphasized that the Labour Code should be aligned to the principles of social justice and tripartite dialogue. He also emphasized on enhancing the capacity of MoLSA and Federal Member States to effectively implement Labour Code in true spirit.

At the inaugural session of the workshop, the Deputy Minister for Labour & Social Affairs, Mr Swaqar Ibrahim Abdalla, said that besides general provisions, the labour code governs establishment of trade unions and their federations, contracts of employment, apprenticeship, remuneration, and occupational safety and health. The labour code combines issues relating to fundamental principles and rights at work, employment contracts, labour relations, safety and health, industrial training, wages and remuneration, labour institutions and the institutions of social dialogue in a single legislation.

While supporting the initiative of revising the Labour Code, the representative from Somali Chamber of Commerce & Industries (SCCI), Mr Cisse M Xalane said that most of our adult life is spent working, and our work can make or break us, as there is no decent life without dignity and respect at work. This comes only from legal rights that protect workers against any form of abuses or exploitation from employers. In order to achieve this, the ILO has come a long way in setting internationally recognized workers' rights through a global and democratic deliberation processes. This Code is in the interest of our nation, to set forth these rules and to implement it.

Welcoming the draft Labour Code as a balanced and forward-looking document, the General Secretary of Federation of Somali Trade Unions (FESTU), Mr Omar Faruk, acknowledged and welcomed the consensus among the tripartite partners on what needs to be done to revise the existing labor code on a tripartite basis. He suggested not to lose sight of the progressive provisions of the current Somali Provisional Constitution in the process of revising the Labor Code. He said Trade Unions are also deeply aware of the sentiments of the Somali working population who are desirous to get a new and modern Labor Code and have waited for many years for the Labor law to be reviewed therefore, we want to see a quick logical conclusion of this process.

Mr Saad Gilani, Head of ILO Somalia Office, thanked the Government for its leadership role in revising the Labour Code through a Somali-led and Somali-owned process. He also welcomed the Government’s openness to get ample feedback from various stakeholders through various consultations. He also appreciated his technical experts who contributed towards the development of Labour Code and improving it in line with various feedbacks and assured of ILO’s support in developing capacity of the Ministry of Labour & Social Affairs, Labour Ministries in Federal Member States and social partners (Employers and Workers) – for effective implementation of Labour Code.

During the workshop, a Panel Session was also held in line with the World Day of Social Justice (20th February) to highlight ways for mainstreaming ‘Labour Rights’ in the Constitution of the Republic of Somalia. Mr Mohamed Bashir Omar from the Ministry of Constitutional Affairs highlighted the salient elements of Labour Rights in the Provisional Constitution and explained the process to send inputs on the draft Constitution.

The 2-day workshop was organized as part of ILO’s technical support to the Government of Somalia under a Transitional Support Plan (TSP). The workshop was facilitated by Mr Pablo Arellano, Labour Law Specialist from ILO Geneva. The workshop helped clarify various technical concepts and terminologies of the Labour legislation and made sure that the Labour Code not only aligns with the local context and social norms, but also complies with the international commitments of the Government of Somalia.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34370-revised-labour-code-somalia-was-finalized




Date: 19 February 2019
Title: Somalia increases peace building efforts with launch of 2019 UN Peacebuilding Fund
Content: 19 February 2019
19 February 2019, Mogadishu. The Government of Somalia and the United Nations have launched five projects supported by the UN Peacebuilding Fund at an event this week in Mogadishu, which will be implemented by UN agencies in partnership with the Government and civil society organisations.
The five projects launched will address displacement, stabilisation, reconciliation, state-building and land disputes, as well as promoting gender sensitivity and focusing on women as peacebuilders in the National Defectors Programme. The amount allocated to the portfolio of projects by the UN Peacebuilding Fund is 14 million USD in total. It will be one of the largest allocations given to a single country and a doubling of the existing portfolio in Somalia.'
Speaking at the launch event, the Minister of Interior, Federal Affairs and Reconciliation, Abdi Mohamed Sabrie, said each of the projects being launched was important in their own right. “These projects support Somalia moving forward, and on behalf of federal government and federal member states, we really appreciate the support of the Peacebuilding Fund, to such very important issues and projects. Each one of us, whether it’s the Ministry, or UN agencies, we are here to take these projects with both hands and make sure that we deliver, to the Somali population, especially the displaced of Somalia,” he said.
Peter de Clercq, the Deputy Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia (DSRSG), said the Peacebuilding Fund has been highly visible as an investor in high risk peacebuilding areas. “It proves concept. It’s a catalyst for continued and bigger funding in these areas,” he said.
“The Peacebuilding Fund is also important for us in the United Nations family and beyond, to demonstrate, what we call the “New Way of Working” which is a much more comprehensive approach […..] looking at humanitarian relief, development, and peace and security being addressed at the same time,” he added.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) will be an implementing partner on four out of the five projects launched under the 2019 Peacebuilding Fund.  Alongside the Ministry of Interior, Federal Affairs and Reconciliation, the Ministry of Justice, and UN agencies IOM, UNSOM, UNHCR, and UN-Habitat, UNDP will work to address displacement through community-driven long-term durable solutions, support stabilisation and extension of state authority through district-level governance, support the country’s federal state building and reconciliation processes, as well as strengthening mechanisms for resolution of land disputes.
George Conway,  Resident Representative of UNDP a.i. in Somalia, said the UN was supporting the government to “promote better developmental solutions that address the root and underlying causes of displacement” and to “support the federal government, though the Ministry of Interior, Federal Affairs and Reconciliation, and local authorities, to promote a reconciliation agenda for the country”.
The UN Secretary-General’s Peacebuilding Fund (PBF) has supported Somalia since 2009. Investments to date amounts to approximately 40 million USD, including the 14 million USD allocated to new projects this year.
The PBF’s investments in Somalia are guided by the United Nations Peacebuilding Priority Plan for Somalia (2016-2019) and aligned with key national frameworks such as the National Development Plan and the Wadajir Framework, the National Stabilisation Strategy, as well as priorities outlined in the recently published roadmaps on Economic Development, Inclusive Politics, Justice and Security and Social Development.
Contacts
Peter Nordstrom, Peacebuilding Fund Coordinator for Somalia: Email: nordstromp@un.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19664-somalia-increases-peace-building-efforts-launch-2019-un-peacebuilding-fund




Date: 10 February 2019
Title: Newly elected Puntland MPs attend training on parliamentary governance and law making
Content: 10 February 2019
Garowe, 10 February 2019. Forty-nine newly elected members of Puntland’s parliament have taken part in a three-day training this month on the role of parliament in reviewing and passing legislation, and on human rights and gender equality.
The training was facilitated by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), with funding from Norway and Switzerland, as part of ongoing support to the Government of Somalia in building the administrative and legislative capacity of parliaments.
Sixty-six members of parliament (MPs) were elected to the House of Representatives of Puntland in December 2018, with a term of five years, and forty-nine of those elected had not yet served in the parliament or received training on effective parliamentary legislation or administration.
The training was carried out following a formal request by the Speaker of Puntland House of Representatives to UNDP.  Speaking at the opening of the training, Mr. Sayed Sahibzada, Head of UNDP Puntland Area Office, said the purpose of the training “is to cover the technicalities, the processes, the procedures in conflict resolution, in oversight function and making laws.”
Effective law making, the role of parliamentary committees, the Sustainable Development Goals and how parliaments help to achieve them; and the importance of human rights and gender equality in legislation and in parliamentary work, were also covered during the workshop.
At the closing of the three-day event, Hon. Abdihakim Mohamed Ahmed, Speaker of the Puntland House of Representatives, thanked UNDP for its ongoing support and partnership, and added that a strategic planning process to draft a five-year Strategic Plan of the House would follow the training upon establishment of a Strategic Planning Committee of the House.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19665-newly-elected-puntland-mps-attend-training-parliamentary-governance-and-law-making




Date: 09 February 2019
Title: UN hosts business partnership seminar in Hargeisa
Content: 09 February 2019
9 February, 2019, Hargeisa. Over one hundred companies from across Somaliland have attended a two day United Nations (UN) procurement seminar in Hargeisa, which outlined the procedures and policies of how to become a business partner with the UN.
The seminar covered procurement advertising methods, how to submit a bid, how offers are evaluated, and how contracts are awarded to businesses. The event also covered UN ethics and risk management practices.
The Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Planning and Development of Somaliland, Mr. Eng. Hussein Ibrahim, said the seminar was a key one for the business community.
“We welcome and appreciate the UN agencies who organised this workshop, and we encourage other international organizations to host similar seminars, in line with Somaliland government policy, which aims to ensure fairness and transparency in awarding contracts,” he added.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Support Office (UNSOS), UNICEF, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN (FAO), the UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA) and the UN Integrated Office in Hargeisa, were among the UN agencies taking part in the seminar.
Ms. Sara Khan, Head of the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) office, and acting head of the UN Integrated Office in Hargeisa, said she hoped the workshop will allow suppliers and companies in Somaliland to understand UN processes better. “UN procurement processes are fair, open and competitive. This will help businesses know more about how to apply for contracts, and to grow their business opportunities,” she said.
Omar Abdullahi Isse, CEO of Keeps Construction and Waste Management Company, highlighted the importance of UN partnership with local businesses in Somaliland in building the economy. “We welcome and request UN agencies to continue to work with local suppliers as we believe we are able to deliver the goods and services that are required,” he said.
Alongside construction companies, other companies attending the seminar included technology firms, medical companies, security companies, catering and conference organisations, and transport and logistics firms.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19666-un-hosts-business-partnership-seminar-hargeisa




Date: 17 January 2019
Title: EU – UN – IGAD Cross Border Project to accelerate 2019 cooperation between Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia borders
Content: 17 January 2019
16 - 17 January 2019, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The European Union and UNDP have organized a joint action working plan to boost the cooperation between Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia borders for 2019 period.
The 2 day workshop is organized by the Support for Effective Cooperation and Coordination of Cross-border Initiatives in Southwest Ethiopia-Northwest Kenya, Marsabit-Borana and Dawa, and Kenya-Somalia-Ethiopia (SECCCI) EU co-funded Project.
The participants are drawn from Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) who are the implementing partners. As well as UNDP Country Offices from Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia, the implementing agency UNDP Regional Service Center for Africa (RSCA) and the key donor Delegation of the European Union to Ethiopia.
The European Union Representative, Sabrina Bazzanella, Team Leader Migration, welcomed the participants by saying that the main objective of the two-days meeting was to come up with a concrete coordination and cooperation Action Plan to guide the implementing partners transboundary interventions, and to enhance the commitment of all to make the project a success to the benefit of the final beneficiaries: people who leave in transboundary areas.
The workshop will accelerate through an agreed joint cross border action plan the cooperation of the national and local Governments of Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia in order to address the drivers of conflict and instability, irregular migration and forced displacement in the cross-border areas of the Horn of Africa.
“UNDP and the UN system as a whole are enhancing their political engagement in recognition of the Horn of Africa’s Governments’ efforts towards prosperity, stability and peace. Under the Cross Border initiative, we look forward to an enhanced stakeholders capacities developed in support of cross-border cooperation. Much can also be done by all of us to accompany an enhanced political engagement by a stronger programmatic approach across the development, humanitarian and peacebuilding nexus to also build the institutional capacity for closer cooperation,” mentioned Lamin Momodou Manneh, director of the UNDP RSCA.
Background:
The SECCCI Project is funded by the European Union, with co-financing contributions from UNDP and UNEP and has a budget of 10 million USD. The Project is implemented by the UNDP RSCA in partnership with UNEP and the IGAD. The implementation is closely coordinated with the national and local Governments of Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia.
The overall objective of the Project is to address the drivers of conflict and instability, irregular migration and displacement in the cross-border areas of the Horn of Africa through improved cross-border cooperation and coordination.
The specific objectives of the Project are:
·       To strengthen regional policy frameworks, structures and protocols for cross-border cooperation between national and local Governments, the private sector, civil society and international technical and financial partners in development;
·       To build capacities of communities, local Governments and civil society to fully engage in processes for development planning and results;
·       To ensure effective cooperation and coordination, monitoring and evaluation of cross-border initiatives including involvement of relevant national and regional actors in these processes.
The Project focuses on three geographically-defined Cross Border Clusters through field offices:
·       Turkana – Omo;
·       Mandera – Gedo – Doolow;
·       Marsabit - Moyale.
Project offices are being established in each cluster location.
Contact person: Anna Moghilda, SECCCI Communications Specialist, Tel.: +251 944 345 305, email: anna.moghilda@undp.org
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/19667-eu-%E2%80%93-un-%E2%80%93-igad-cross-border-project-accelerate-2019-cooperation-between-ethiopia-kenya-and




Date: 08 January 2019
Title: IOM Addresses Protection Needs of Internally Displaced Somalis
Content: 08 January 2019

The distribution of basic necessities like kitchen sets, blankets, jerry cans, plastic sheeting, wood and tools to 8,560 internally displaced families in 153 camps began on 11 December.
The materials will improve the people’s living conditions and address their protection, peace and development needs, with a particular emphasis on women and children, by allowing them to create a safer, more dignified existence.
“This assistance has allowed us to recover some household items and to reinforce our shelter which has improved our living conditions,” explained Halimoa, a mother of three.
An estimated 252,000 families are living in 371 camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs) across Baidao, 250km northwest of the capital Mogadishu. Many have been displaced for years due to drought and conflict in the region.
IOM utilizes a network of community outreach teams to evaluate and communicate the urgent needs of camp residents.
“Due to the lack of lighting in IDP sites many residents were afraid to go out at night, but after the distribution of NFI kits with solar lanterns we have seen improved conditions and less fear among the population,” said Ali, one of the outreach leaders.
The distribution was funded by the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO). The programme aims to reach 7,700 families living in IDP camps across Somalia.
For more information please contact the IOM Somalia Programme Support Unit, Tel: +254 715 990 600, Email: iomsomaliapsu@iom.int

Link to original

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34613-iom-addresses-protection-needs-internally-displaced-somalis




Date: 03 January 2019
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns terror attack in Somalia that claimed numerous lives including that of journalist Awil Dahir Salad
Content: 03 January 2019
UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay has condemned the car bomb attack in the Somali capital that killed high profile television journalist Awil Dahir Salad, his driver, Abdiqadir Hassan Yusuf, and two bodyguards, Mohamed Dubad Gajaow and Ibrahim Mohayadin Ahmed, alongside more than 10 other people.
“I condemn the killing of Awil Dahir Salad, Abdiqadir Hassan Yusuf, Mohamed Dubad Gajaow and Ibrahim Mohayadin,” said the Director-General. “These tragic deaths are a call to action: No effort should be spared in seeking to improve the safety of journalists and media workers. The contribution of the media to public debate is essential to conflict resolution and reconstruction.”
Awil Dahir Salad, host of a popular talk show on Universal TV, and his three support staff were killed when a car exploded at a military checkpoint near the Presidential Palace in Mogadishu, on 22 December
UNESCO promotes the safety of journalists through global awareness-raising, capacity building and a range of actions, notably the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity(link is external).
See also: UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists(link is external).
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20759-unesco-director-general-condemns-terror-attack-somalia-claimed-numerous-lives-including




Date: 21 December 2018
Title: IOM Opens New Office in Mogadishu
Content: 21 December 2018

Following International Migrants Day, IOM staff members, together with the Somali Government, gathered to celebrate this momentous event. IOM is among the first UN organizations to establish a head office in Mogadishu, to increase the presence on the ground in Somalia while downsizing its (Somalia) office in Nairobi. An increased presence in Somalia will enable a closer cooperation with government and community partners and an increased response time to meet operational needs.
In her remarks, Dyane Epstein, IOM Somalia Chief of Mission, welcomed government officials and other attendees: “Today signifies IOM’s strong commitment to the government and people of Somalia and shows our unwavering support for years to come.”
Additionally, Gamal Mohamed Hassan, the Minister of Planning, Investment and Economic Development welcomed the opening of the new office saying, “This is a historic event as we are inaugurating a full-time presence of IOM in Somalia. It shows close collaboration and our growing relationship with IOM, as well as IOM’s serious commitment to support Somalia and the Somali people. The Government calls on all INGO’s and UN agencies to relocate to Somalia.”
IOM has been operational in Somalia since 2006 and is currently present in all six states. Over the past 12 years, IOM has supported and led humanitarian response, community-based recovery and migration governance initiatives. With an annual budget of more than USD 50 million, IOM Somalia currently implements 40 projects funded by 25 different donors, aimed at offering life-saving assistance for migrant communities.
The new office in Mogadishu will serve as a hub for all programmes and support units and provide working space for 200 people (IOM and other agencies) and 28 accommodation units.
For more information please contact the IOM Somalia Programme Support Unit; iomsomaliapsu@iom.int; +254 715 990 600

Link to original

UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34616-iom-opens-new-office-mogadishu




Date: 14 December 2018
Title: Government of Italy grants UNFPA Somalia three million Euros for the reduction of maternal mortality in Somalia
Content: 14 December 2018
In partnership with UNFPA, this generous contribution will support the Federal Government of Somalia’s efforts towards social and human development, particularly in the Federal Government National Development Plan areas of health, youth, gender and institutional building.
The Ambassador of Italy to Somalia His Excellency Mr. Carlo Campanile stressed the importance of supporting maternal and child health in Somalia, with a focus on reducing maternal mortality in the region. This contribution will prioritize the health of women and children in several regions, resulting in saving the lives of children and women in Somalia.
The UNFPA Representative, Mr. Nikolai Botev, said the funding from Italy is significant in contributing to improved access to reproductive health services through enhanced reproductive health-care service delivery processes, increased family planning service uptake and increased reproductive health commodity security, obstetric fistula prevention and management, and strengthened capacities of national and local authorities. Part of the resources will be allocated to support vital health service provision in key hospitals.
“We are very thankful to the Government of Italy and the Italian people for this very generous funding,” said Mr. Botev. He restated UNFPA’s commitment towards its overall goal of working towards the reduction of maternal mortality with women, youth, and populations affected by humanitarian crisis, being the country programme’s primary targets.
The Minister of Health and Human Services, H.E. Dr. Fawziya Abikar Nor expressed her gratitude to all who are contributing to improving maternal and child health in Somalia. She particularly commended the Government of Italy and UNFPA for continuing to be reliable partners towards improving the health and wellbeing of the Somali people.
“Many programmes and actions for improved maternal and reproductive health depend on an overall improvement in functioning of the health system and we’re thankful for the strong relationship we have with the Government of Italy and UNFPA in the provision of the essential health services including new-born and maternal health services,” said Dr. Abikar.

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/33507-government-italy-grants-unfpa-somalia-three-million-euros-reduction-maternal-mortality




Date: 19 November 2018
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns murder of radio host Abdullahi Mire Hashi in Somalia
Content: 19 November 2018
“I condemn the murder of Abdullahi Mire Hashi,” said the Director-General. “I call on the authorities to bring those responsible for this killing to justice, to prevent fear and gun-point censorship from muzzling freedom of expression in the media.”
Abdullahi Mire Hashi was shot on 27 October as he was leaving afternoon prayer at a mosque near the privately-owned Darul Sunnah radio where he hosted a daily call-in programme.
UNESCO promotes the safety of journalists through global awareness-raising, capacity building and a range of actions, notably the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity(link is external).
See also: UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists(link is external).
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20760-unesco-director-general-condemns-murder-radio-host-abdullahi-mire-hashi-somalia




Date: 02 November 2018
Title: UN Migration Agency Brings Life-saving Health Services to Previously Inaccessible Areas of Somalia
Content: 02 November 2018

In partnership with Jubaland State’s Ministry of Health (MoH), and with support from the government of Japan, IOM supported the re-opening of Gobweyn Health Centre, and is providing mobile outreach clinics in Bulla Gaduud, Kham Kham and Yontoy villages.
Government forces have been taking back new areas like Bulla Gaduud and Gobweyn from armed non-state actors in recent months, which has in turn increased the need for health services. Aid agencies have hitherto been unable to reach these towns due to insecurity and the presence of armed groups in the surroundings. Upon re-establishing services, IOM and MoH clinical teams noted the challenges of high malnutrition rates and poor immunization coverage. With humanitarian services now available, it is expected that people from these villages, many of whom are currently residing in overcrowded settlements for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in far-away urban centres, will begin to return to their home communities.
An estimated 20,000 people live in Bulla Gaduud. Speaking during the opening of the Bulla Gaduud clinic early October, Shukri Mohamed Seyyid Ahmed, the Chair Lady of the Bulla Gaduud Women’s Association, explained: “Prior to today, we [used to seek] healthcare services in Kismayo, but we lost so many lives in trying to transport emergency cases there. Sadly, two children died [recently] of acute watery disease [cholera] due to having nothing here and no health facility to send them to. However, today health services have been brought closer to us and we thank IOM and the Jubaland Ministry of Health for enabling us to receive medical care right at our doorsteps.”
Abdirashid Omar Khalif, the deputy village leader and youth representative in Gobweyn, expressed his joy during the launch mid-October of the health facility in his town. “We are agricultural people [farmers]. We had to leave behind our farms and livestock to take our sick children all the way to Kismayo town which is 20 kilometres away, but today we can take our children to this clinic,” he said. Gobweyn town alone has four main settlements with over 480 households, according to community leaders.
This year IOM has expanded its primary healthcare programmes into hard-to-reach and largely inaccessible areas to meet dire and urgent medical care needs. In collaboration with the MoH, the Organization has just opened new health centres in Hosingo (Badhadhe district) and Bardhere (Gedo region) – towns that are isolated and surrounded by armed groups.
For more information please contact Vijay Narayan at IOM Somalia, Tel: +252 682384437, Email: vnarayan@iom.int

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34617-un-migration-agency-brings-life-saving-health-services-previously-inaccessible-areas-somalia




Date: 24 October 2018
Title: Acknowledging bold steps taken – and needed – to protect Somali children from polio
Content: 24 October 2018
MOGADISHU– This World Polio Day, UNICEF and WHO are taking a moment to acknowledge the tremendous efforts made by the polio eradication workforce and partners over the last two decades in Somalia. By way of one recent example, UNICEF, WHO, health authorities and partners are working tirelessly to stop two concurrent outbreaks of vaccine-derived polioviruses that were confirmed late in 2017 in Somalia.
“Today, we face a persistent lack of access to children due to insecurity, population displacement driven by conflict and natural disasters, and a struggling health system, all of which have contributed to low immunization rates in children,” said Dr Ghulam Popal, WHO Representative for Somalia. “This has seen the emergence of polioviruses that are highly contagious and spread through poor hygiene. But a simple series of doses of the polio vaccine will protect a child for life.”
The theme for this year’s World Polio Day is ‘Bold Steps to End Polio’, which is exactly what the Government and health workers are doing today: taking bold steps to control these outbreaks, ensuring all children have access to vaccines.
Somalia’s stakeholders are hopeful: they have seen the country stop polio outbreaks before and believe it can be done again.
“Every day, frontline workers are identifying children who need to be vaccinated, often in highly volatile areas,” said Steven Lauwerier, UNICEF Representative in Somalia. “They are knocking on doors in communities and visiting camps for the internally displaced to educate families on the benefits of polio immunization and to deliver vaccinations. These are the unsung heroes in the fight against polio.”
During the last immunization campaign, held nationwide earlier this month, the Government, alongside WHO, UNICEF and partners, reached more than 2.6 million children with the oral vaccine. Polio teams are working hard to ensure children most vulnerable to missing vaccination are included in plans for the next nationwide campaign that will run from 29 October to 1 November in Somalia. Boosting overall immunity of Somali children through multiple doses of the polio vaccine is the only way to stop the polioviruses currently in circulation.
As part of the response to the outbreaks, polio teams are reaching out to Somali communities and health partners for their support to look out for polio symptoms, including the sudden onset of floppiness and inability to move arms and legs, in children under 15 years of age. Children with these symptoms should be taken to the nearest health facility as soon as possible to receive timely attention.
WHO and UNICEF note that the biggest challenges to full coverage of the polio vaccine include ensuring all children from mobile and displaced communities are included in microplanning, improving overall hygiene in children, and reaching children in inaccessible areas. The likelihood that the current outbreaks of circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses can survive in areas where there is low immunization uptake and lack of sanitation is high. As such the Government, WHO, UNICEF and health partners are calling for unimpeded and safe access to be able to vaccinate all eligible children in Somalia. Everyone has their own role to play in ending polio in Somalia.
Link to press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34603-acknowledging-bold-steps-taken-%E2%80%93-and-needed-%E2%80%93-protect-somali-children-polio




Date: 24 October 2018
Title: Acknowledging bold steps taken – and needed – to protect Somali children from polio
Content: 24 October 2018
MOGADISHU, Somalia,– This World Polio Day, UNICEF and WHO are taking a moment to acknowledge the tremendous efforts made by the polio eradication workforce and partners over the last two decades in Somalia. By way of one recent example, UNICEF, WHO, health authorities and partners are working tirelessly to stop two concurrent outbreaks of vaccine-derived polioviruses that were confirmed late in 2017 in Somalia.
“Today, we face a persistent lack of access to children due to insecurity, population displacement driven by conflict and natural disasters, and a struggling health system, all of which have contributed to low immunization rates in children,” said Dr Ghulam Popal, WHO Representative for Somalia. “This has seen the emergence of polioviruses that are highly contagious and spread through poor hygiene. But a simple series of doses of the polio vaccine will protect a child for life.”
The theme for this year’s World Polio Day is ‘Bold Steps to End Polio’, which is exactly what the Government and health workers are doing today: taking bold steps to control these outbreaks, ensuring all children have access to vaccines.
Somalia’s stakeholders are hopeful: they have seen the country stop polio outbreaks before and believe it can be done again.
“Every day, frontline workers are identifying children who need to be vaccinated, often in highly volatile areas,” said Steven Lauwerier, UNICEF Representative in Somalia. “They are knocking on doors in communities and visiting camps for the internally displaced to educate families on the benefits of polio immunization and to deliver vaccinations. These are the unsung heroes in the fight against polio.”
During the last immunization campaign, held nationwide earlier this month, the Government, alongside WHO, UNICEF and partners, reached more than 2.6 million children with the oral vaccine. Polio teams are working hard to ensure children most vulnerable to missing vaccination are included in plans for the next nationwide campaign that will run from 29 October to 1 November in Somalia. Boosting overall immunity of Somali children through multiple doses of the polio vaccine is the only way to stop the polioviruses currently in circulation.
As part of the response to the outbreaks, polio teams are reaching out to Somali communities and health partners for their support to look out for polio symptoms, including the sudden onset of floppiness and inability to move arms and legs, in children under 15 years of age. Children with these symptoms should be taken to the nearest health facility as soon as possible to receive timely attention.
WHO and UNICEF note that the biggest challenges to full coverage of the polio vaccine include ensuring all children from mobile and displaced communities are included in microplanning, improving overall hygiene in children, and reaching children in inaccessible areas. The likelihood that the current outbreaks of circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses can survive in areas where there is low immunization uptake and lack of sanitation is high. As such the Government, WHO, UNICEF and health partners are calling for unimpeded and safe access to be able to vaccinate all eligible children in Somalia. Everyone has their own role to play in ending polio in Somalia.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34567-acknowledging-bold-steps-taken-%E2%80%93-and-needed-%E2%80%93-protect-somali-children-polio




Date: 20 September 2018
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns attack on radio reporter Abdirizak Said Osman in Somalia
Content: 20 September 2018
“I condemn the attack on Abdirizak Said Osman” the Director-General said. “I call on the authorities to follow up on this crime with a thorough investigation. The perpetrators and instigators of crimes against journalists must be brought to justice so that others do not feel emboldened to attack the media.”
Abdirisak Said Osman, a reporter for local radio station Voice of Peace, in Galkayo, was stabbed to death after he left his workplace. Shortly before this attack, he had been reporting on the increasing insecurity in the region due to the activities of militant groups.
UNESCO promotes the safety of journalists through global awareness-raising, capacity-building and a range of actions, notably the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity.
See also: UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20761-unesco-director-general-condemns-attack-radio-reporter-abdirizak-said-osman-somalia




Date: 06 August 2018
Title: UNESCO Director-General urges investigation into death of TV journalist Abdirizak Kasim Iman in Somalia
Content: 06 August 2018
The Director-General of UNESCO, Audrey Azoulay, called for a transparent investigation into the violent death of TV journalist Abdirizak Kasim Iman on 26 July in the Somalian capital, Mogadishu.
“I condemn the killing of Abdirizak Kasim Iman,” the Director-General declared. “Journalists cannot do their job of informing the public when they are worried about their own safety. I call on the authorities to launch a transparent investigation in order to unveil the exact circumstances around the death of this young media worker.”
Abdirizak Kasim Iman, 20, worked as cameraman for the Somali broadcasting Services (SBS). He was shot dead by a police officer while passing through a checkpoint near a public park in Mogadishu.
UNESCO promotes the safety of journalists through global awareness-raising, capacity-building and a range of actions, notably the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity.
See also: UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.(link is external)
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20762-unesco-director-general-urges-investigation-death-tv-journalist-abdirizak-kasim-iman-somalia




Date: 12 March 2018
Title: Huge measles campaign in drought-hit Somalia aims to protect children and save lives
Content: 12 March 2018
A nationwide campaign continues in Somalia to protect millions of children against the potentially deadly effects of measles. WHO, UNICEF, national and local health authorities aim to reach more than 4.7 million children aged from 6 months to 10 years during the overall campaign.
This week, the campaign targets 2.7 million children in the southern and central states, along with 1.1 million children in Somaliland. The vaccinations will be available at health centres and temporary vaccination sites. Puntland implemented its campaign in January when over 933 000 children were vaccinated.
Over 2800 cases of suspected measles have been reported since the start of the year, with the most affected regions including Bay, Banadir and Mudug. In 2017, there were more than 23 000 suspected cases of measles –6 times as many as in 2016 – with the vast majority (83%) affecting children under 10.
In early 2017, WHO, UNICEF and partners, together with national health authorities, vaccinated nearly 600 000 children aged 6 months to 5 years for measles in hard-to-reach and hotspot areas across Somalia.
“The campaign will intensify efforts to improve immunity against measles and reach unvaccinated children. As we saw last year when partners responded to a major cholera outbreak, with the right interventions, WHO and health authorities are confident that similar success may be seen in controlling this measles outbreak,” said Dr Ghulam Popal, WHO Representative in Somalia.
More than 2 years of severe drought has led to widespread child malnutrition, mass displacement, and a lack of access to clean water and sanitation, creating ideal conditions for infectious disease outbreaks.
“The situation is especially critical for millions of under-vaccinated, weak and vulnerable children who are susceptible to contracting infectious diseases. More than 1.2 million children are projected to be at risk of acute malnutrition in the next 12 months. These children are 9 times more likely to die of killer diseases such as measles and acute watery diarrhoea/cholera than healthy children,” said Steven Lauwerier, UNICEF Somalia Representative.
Ahead of this latest campaign, in late 2017, WHO conducted a series of trainings for Somali health workers on early outbreak detection and response for measles. The training aimed to enhance measles case-based surveillance and laboratory confirmation, improve measles case management during outbreaks, and achieve high routine measles vaccination coverage.
UNICEF has procured and distributed over 4.7 million doses of measles vaccine and organized 1700 social mobilizers to encourage families to vaccinate children and adults who are not or think they might not be fully immunized. This will be accompanied by vitamin A supplementation which will help to boost immunity.
The response is supported through funding from Alwaleed Philanthropies (Saudi Arabia), the Measles and Rubella Initiative, WHO, and the Somalia Humanitarian Fund.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34739-huge-measles-campaign-drought-hit-somalia-aims-protect-children-and-save-lives




Date: 07 January 2018
Title: One million children in Puntland and 4.2 million nationwide vaccinated against measles
Content: 07 January 2018
The Ministry of Health of the Federal Government of Somalia, in partnership with WHO and UNICEF, today concluded a 5-day national measles campaign, targeting 1 million children aged 6 months to 10 years in Puntland, and 4.2 million across the country.
In 2017, amidst a drought emergency, a total of 23 002 suspected measles cases were reported, which is alarmingly high compared to previous years. Among these cases, 83% were children under 10 years of age.
“It is a priority for WHO to continue supporting the Ministry of Health and maintaining the close partnership with the local health authorities and partners to control disease outbreaks like measles and ensure high vaccination coverage for all Somali children,” said Dr Ghulam Popal, WHO Representative to Somalia. “It is unfortunate that measles cases are still being reported while there is effective vaccine available,” he added.
In response to the outbreak, 2 rounds of measles vaccination campaigns were conducted in March and April of 2017, reaching 516 934 children aged 9 months to 5 years.
“Together with our partners, UNICEF was able to achieve great results for children and families affected by drought in 2017,” says Jesper Moller, UNICEF Representative, a.i. “However the crisis is far from over. The threat of famine continues to loom large, and so does disease outbreaks such as measles. The only way to protect children from this deadly disease is through mass vaccination campaigns. And we will remain vigilant and sustain our emergency efforts in 2018.”
During this campaign, a support dose of vitamin A will be administered to eligible children alongside the measles vaccine. Social mobilizers and health workers supported by WHO and UNICEF are also encouraging adults who are not fully immunized, or not sure of their immunity status, to get vaccinated as well.
Link to original press release.
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34741-one-million-children-puntland-and-42-million-nationwide-vaccinated-against-measles




Date: 20 September 2017
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killing of journalist Abdullahi Osman Moallim in Somalia
Content: 20 September 2017
Two other Somali journalists, Abdi Shakur Mohamed Hassan and Abdulkadir Omar Ibrahim, were also injured when the attacker detonated an explosive vest outside a restaurant in the Hiiraan region. Mr. Moallim worked for the Somalian broadcaster Jubbaland TV. At least six people were killed and ten injured during the attack.
“I condemn the killing of Abdullahi Osman Moallim,” said Director-General Bokova. “Journalists the world over are being attacked based on their mission to keep the public informed. I call on the responsible authorities to investigate this attack and extend my condolences to the victims and their families.”
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.” These statements are posted on a dedicated webpage, UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20763-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-journalist-abdullahi-osman-moallim-somalia




Date: 08 June 2016
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killing of broadcast journalist Sagal Salad Osman in Somalia
Content: 08 June 2016
“I condemn the murder of Sagal Salad Osman,” the Director-General said. “Violence is never acceptable. It is particularly tragic when used to silence a young woman blazing a trail for all others by exercising an essential profession in a difficult environment.”
Sagal Osman, a broadcaster for state-run Somali National Television and Radio Mogadishu, was shot on 5 June in the west of the capital Mogadishu.
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.”
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20764-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-broadcast-journalist-sagal-salad-osman-somalia




Date: 18 December 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns murder of Somali journalist Abdisalam Sheikh Hassan
Content: 18 December 2015
“I condemn the murder of Abdisalam Sheikh Hassan,” the Director-General said. “Securing safer working conditions must be made into a priority in Somalia’s effort to establish democracy and rule of law. I therefore call on the transitional government to investigate this crime against a journalist and against society as a whole.”
Freelance journalist Abdisalam Sheikh Hassan, 38, was shot in the head as he left the offices of Horn Cable TV, for whom he worked. The National Union of Somali Journalists reports that Sheik Hassan, the third reporter killed in Mogadishu this year, also worked for Hamar Radio and Voice of Democracy (VoD). He died in hospital shortly after the shooting.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20778-unesco-director-general-condemns-murder-somali-journalist-abdisalam-sheikh-hassan




Date: 17 December 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killing of camera operator Mustaf Abdi Noor in Mogadishu, Somalia
Content: 17 December 2015
“I condemn the killing of Mustaf Abdi Noor,” said the Director-General. “I call on the authorities to do all they can to prosecute those responsible for his death.”
Mustaf Abdi Noor, a camera operator who freelanced for national and international broadcasters, was killed in a bomb explosion in the Somali capital on 1 November.
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.” These statements are posted on a dedicated webpage, UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20785-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-camera-operator-mustaf-abdi-noor-mogadishu-somalia




Date: 16 December 2015
Title: Building Capacity for Somali Business Associations
Content: 16 December 2015
The project is funded by UN Women with support from Swedish International Cooperation Agency. The training will focus on fundamentals of effective association management, governance and advocacy and will utilize the best practice for adult learning in these areas:
The participating associations include Somali Women Business Association, NAGAAD Network, National Association of Women Business Owners and representatives from Chamber of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce and Industry and Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34372-building-capacity-somali-business-associations




Date: 15 December 2015
Title: ILO and International Bank of Somalia Provide Financial Services to Women Business Owners
Content: 15 December 2015
ILO is collaborating with the International Bank of Somalia (IBS) to design financial services and banking products for entrepreneurs. ILO is supporting IBS loan officers, in developing business mentoring skills to assist the development of businesses especially to women entrepreneurs. Increasing women’s access to microfinance has wide-ranging benefits, not just for their well-being but also for the welfare of their families, the communities in which they live and for society at large.

In addition, the bank is providing the following services:
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34371-ilo-and-international-bank-somalia-provide-financial-services-women-business-owners




Date: 07 December 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killing of reporter Hindiya Haji Mohamed in Mogadishu
Content: 07 December 2015
“I condemn the killing of Hindiya Haji Mohamed,” the Director-General said. “Pluralistic and independent media are vital to freedom of expression and cannot operate without the dedicated work of journalists. It is essential for Somali society as a whole that the perpetrators of this crime are brought to justice.”
Mohamed, a reporter for Radio Mogadishu and Somali National TV, was fatally injured in the explosion of a bomb set in her car.
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.” These statements are posted on a dedicated webpage, UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20786-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-reporter-hindiya-haji-mohamed-mogadishu




Date: 10 November 2015
Title: ILO and IOM host Somali inter-ministerial dialogue on migration
Content: 10 November 2015
IOM and ILO last week hosted a cross section of Somali government officials at an inter-ministerial dialogue on migration to discuss key migration and mobility issues.

The meeting, which was held in Nairobi, Kenya on Wednesday, 4 November 2015, was attended by officials from the Ministries of Youth and Sports, Interior and Federal Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Internal Security, the National Commission for IDPs and Refugees, the Prime Minister’s Office, the Delegation of the European Union (EU) to Somalia, and the Inter-governmental Authority on Development (IGAD.)

“Migration is of great concern to our government because it affects a huge percentage of the Somali Youth, who make up 70 per cent of the total population in the country. Often driven in search of employment opportunities, or fleeing situations of conflict and crisis in Somalia, youth leave their areas of origin and face particular challenges during their migration,” said Youth and Sports Minister Maxamed Cabdullahi Xasan.

According to the ILO, in 2014 an estimated one in eight migrants were between the ages of 15 and 24. The Labour Force Survey for Somalia conducted in 2014 points to the bleak employment situation of Somali youth, as young people (aged 15-24) struggle to find work, especially in the formal sector, where youth unemployment is estimated at 22 per cent.

State Minister of Interior and Federal Affairs Abdirashid Mohamed Hidig said: “As of 6th October 2015, Somali migrants have accounted for 13 per cent of all boat arrivals in Italy. Between January and July this year they included a total of 800 Somali unaccompanied minors.”

Gerard Waite, IOM Somalia Chief of Mission said: “In 2015 a minimum of 359 people from the Somalis and Eritreans from the Horn of Africa have died making the Mediterranean crossing. Between January and March this year, 45 migrants also died crossing the Gulf of Aden, and another four died off the coast of Yemen. This is why IOM is working in Somalia to reduce irregular migration and promote orderly migration.”

In the second quarter of 2015, smuggled migrants from the Horn of Africa were the second largest group of Mediterranean arrivals in the European Union after Syrian nationals. Eritreans and Somalis accounted for 17 per cent of all Mediterranean boat arrivals in Europe in the third quarter of 2015. They have been in the top five countries of origin of asylum applicants in 11 different EU states over the last two years.

Paul Crook, ILO Chief Technical Advisor in Somalia noted: “ILO is currently engaged in fragile states and disaster response anchored in the role of socio-economic programmes and policies in peace-building and recovery. Through its work, the ILO will continue to strengthen institutional capacity and governance in countries and regions affected by conflict, irregular migration and disaster to lay the foundations for stable communities.”

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34373-ilo-and-iom-host-somali-inter-ministerial-dialogue-migration




Date: 31 October 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General calls for investigation into killing of Somali journalists Mohammed Mohamud Tuuryare and Ahmed Farah Ilyas
Content: 31 October 2015
“I condemn the murder of Mohammed Mohamud Tuuryare and Ahmed Farah Ilyas,” the Director-General said. “The number of journalists killed in the country is truly alarming and I am deeply concerned about the ability of journalists, whose courage I admire, to carry out their work in the face of such violence.
“It is essential for the authorities to investigate these crimes which affect society as a whole as they undermine citizens’ freedom of expression, a basic human right, and their ability to receive information they need,” Ms Bokova concluded.
Mohamed Mohamud Turyare, a 22-year-old journalist webmaster and producer for Shabelle Media Network, was shot several times in the chest and stomach as he left a mosque in Mogadishu on 21 October. He died one week later in hospital from injuries sustained during the attack.
Ahmed Farah Ilyas, 25, widely known by the name of Saakin, was a reporter for Universal TV. He was attacked by unidentified gunmen on his way home from work in the Sool region of Northern Somalia.
These two murders bring to 17 the number of journalists killed in Somalia this year alone. They are remembered on the dedicated site UNESCO Condemns the Killing of Journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20775-unesco-director-general-calls-investigation-killing-somali-journalists-mohammed-mohamud




Date: 28 September 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killing of two Somali journalists Abdirahman Mohamed Ali and Ahmed Abdulahi Farah
Content: 28 September 2015
“I am appalled by news of the brutal killing of Mohamed Ali and Ahmed Abdulahi Farah in Mogadishu and feel deeply concerned about the unacceptable toll paid by the media in Somalia,” the Director-General said. “Journalists must be allowed to exercise their basic human right to free expression and their professional duty to keep the public informed.”
On 28 September an armed man shot and killed Abdullahi Abdi Fanah, a stringer for the Yemen news agency (SABA) in Mogadishu.
The beheaded body of Journalist Abdirahman Mohamed Ali, 25, was found in a street in Mogadishu on 27 September. The journalist, a reporter for Somali sports news website cayaarahamaanta.com, had been abducted one day earlier.
Fifteen journalists have been killed in Somalia in 2012 and a total of 27 since 2008. They are remembered on the dedicated site UNESCO Condemns the Killing of Journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20766-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-two-somali-journalists-abdirahman-mohamed-ali-and




Date: 23 September 2015
Title: UNESCO chief alarmed by upsurge in killing of journalists in Somalia
Content: 23 September 2015
“I am horrified by the sudden upsurge of violence targeting the media in Somalia,” the Director-General said. “I join the Somali Government in roundly condemning these murders, which are an outrage against the whole nation. They are also an extreme violation of the right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press – both essential for the construction and functioning of healthy democracies , and especially important in a nation trying to rebuild after so many years of conflict.”
In Friday’s attack, well-known radio journalist Hassan Youssouf Absuge was shot dead as he left the studios of Radio Mantaa, and independent station for which he was the programme director.
On Thursday, three journalists -  Liban Ali Nur, head of News at Somali National TV, Abdisatar Daher Sabriye, Head of news at Radio Mogadishu, and Abdirahman Yasin Ali, Director of Radio Hamar (Voice of Democracy) - were killed and four others injured in a suicide-bombing at a  café frequented by journalists in Mogadishu, the capital.
Four days earlier, independent cameraman Zakariye Mohamed Mohamud Moallim was shot dead in the Nasib Bundo neighbourhood of Mogadishu.
“I urge the Somali authorities to do everything in their power to bring the perpetrators of these outrageous crimes to justice,” Irina Bokova added.
These latest killings bring to 13 the number of journalists killed in Somalia this year and 26 the number killed since 2008. They are remembered on UNESCO’s dedicated webpage UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20765-unesco-chief-alarmed-upsurge-killing-journalists-somalia




Date: 15 September 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killing of Somali journalist Abdullahi Ali Hussein
Content: 15 September 2015
“I condemn the killing of Abdullahi Ali Hussein,” the Director-General said. “Extremists must not be allowed to stifle freedom of expression with their violence and intimidation. Free and vibrant media, with committed journalists, have an essential contribution to make to the rule of law and good governance in Somalia.”
A Somali editor for the news website, Waagasucub, Abdullahi Ali Hussein was shot dead in the city of Mogadishu in Somalia on 8 September.
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.” These statements are posted on a dedicated webpage, UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20780-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-somali-journalist-abdullahi-ali-hussein




Date: 31 August 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killing of Somali journalist Mohamud Ali Keyre
Content: 31 August 2015
“I am appalled by news of the violent death of Mohamud Ali Keyre,” the Director-General said. “It is essential that the authorities do all in their power to stem the violence that is claiming so many civilian lives in Somalia, including a shocking number of media workers. Journalists must be able to keep the public informed without fearing for their lives. A free and independent press is an essential contribution to dialogue and national reconciliation in Somalia.  It is also necessary for democracy and rule of law.”
Mohamud Ali Keyre was killed on 12 August by a bullet shot to his head. The 23-year old journalist wrote for the website horyaalmedia.com.  Previously, he had worked as a Mogadishu-based radio broadcaster for Voice of Democracy,  but had to flee to Kenya because of threats to his life. Media reports say that he recently returned to Mogadishu after deciding that the security situation in the Somali capital had improved.
A total of 18 journalists have been killed in Somalia since 2009. They are remembered on the dedicated site UNESCO Condemns the Killing of Journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20767-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-somali-journalist-mohamud-ali-keyre




Date: 27 August 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General deplores death of Mohamed Abdikarim Moallim Adam in Mogadishu, Somalia
Content: 27 August 2015
“I condemn this attack and deplore the death of Somali journalist Mohamed Abdikarim Moallim Adam,” the Director-General said. “Somali journalists are paying an unacceptable price to continue providing their country and the world with news and information. Their safety is of paramount importance to us all who want to see violence give way to dialogue and mutual understanding.”
Mohamed Abdikarim Moallim Adam, a reporter for Universal TV, was near the Jazeera Palace Hotel of Magidushu on 26 July when a car bomb exploded.
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.” These statements are posted on a dedicated webpage, UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20781-unesco-director-general-deplores-death-mohamed-abdikarim-moallim-adam-mogadishu-somalia




Date: 31 July 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General alarmed by murder of Abdi Jaylani Malaq in Somalia, and urges end to impunity
Content: 31 July 2015
“News of the murder of Abdi Malaq is disquieting and reflects the dangerous conditions faced by many Somali reporters,” said the Director-General. “Mr. Malaq’s death deprives his audience of a voice that exposed the injustices they face. Every attempt must be made to put an end to this environment of impunity, so that tragedies like this are never repeated.”
Malaq, a producer at Universal TV who used the pseudonym ‘Marshale,’ was known for his sharp wit, which he often employed to criticize armed groups  for their use of child soldiers. According to Reporters Without Borders, the method of attack bears the mark of local armed militants.
Two weeks before the assassination of Abdi Malaq, one of his colleagues at Universal TV- Abdulkadir Omar Abdulle - narrowly survived a similar attack, sustaining gunshot wounds at close range.
Since January, seven media professionals have been killed in Somalia, which remains one of the most dangerous countries for journalists.
UNESCO condemns killing of journalists
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20768-unesco-director-general-alarmed-murder-abdi-jaylani-malaq-somalia-and-urges-end-impunity




Date: 08 June 2015
Title: Launch of Women’s Economic Empowerment project in Somalia
Content: 08 June 2015
The project has identified key areas of focus in creating an enabling environment for women to acquire decent work:

1) Creating an improved enabling environment supporting women’s economic empowerment
2) Increasing capacity of women’s associations to address barriers to employment and economic empowerment
3) Increasing access to skills and financial/non-financial business development services to improve income-generating capacity, productivity and competitiveness

The initiative will be implemented within a period of twelve month. Its main objective is to enhance women’s economic advancement and to foster an enabling environment for women entrepreneurship. This will be achieved through interventions such as entrepreneurial skills training in alternative sectors, resources to compete in markets and to have fair access to economic institutions.

The initiative will also support women’s voices and representation through a consultative mechanism intended to provide a forum for business, civil society representative to provide an enabling business environment for women. his initiative is committed to the goal of women’s economic empowerment, economically empowering women as a win-win situation benefiting not only women, but society as a whole.

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34374-launch-women%E2%80%99s-economic-empowerment-project-somalia




Date: 29 May 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General alarmed by murder of Somali journalist Ahmed Addow Andshur and urges end to impunity
Content: 29 May 2015
“I condemn the murder of Ahmed Addow Anshur and urge the authorities to bring its perpetrators to justice,” the Director-General said. “Letting this crime as well as previous journalist killings in Somalia go unpunished constitutes an infringement on press freedom and on citizens’ right to be informed. I call on the authorities to spare no effort in stemming violence against freedom of expression and society’s ability to sustain public debate.”
Ahmed Addow Anshur was shot by unidentified gunmen in Mogadishu. He had previously received death threats for his reports on corruption. Anshur is the third journalist of Radio Shabelle to be murdered this year, according to the National Union of Somali Journalists (NUSOJ).
A total of 19 journalists and media workers have been killed in Somalia since 2008. They are listed in the dedicated webpage UNESCO Remembers Assassinated Journalists.
In 2011, UNESCO provided equipment and training on safety issues, conflict-sensitive journalism and humanitarian reporting to more than 40 media professionals in Somalia. The purpose of this assistance was to enhance the quality and flow of humanitarian information in the country and neighbouring refugee camps. In 2010, UNESCO, in collaboration with Radio Netherlands Training Centre (RNTC), provided training to 20 Somali community radio journalists, helping them improve their ability to work in an environment marked by conflict.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20769-unesco-director-general-alarmed-murder-somali-journalist-ahmed-addow-andshur-and-urges-end




Date: 07 May 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns murder of Somali journalist Farhan James Abdulle
Content: 07 May 2015
“Farhan James Abdulle was a fervent defender of press freedom, and fought for improved security for journalists,” the Director-General said. “His tragic death, on the eve of World Press Freedom Day, deprives the people of Somalia of a voice that spoke out for their right to be informed and their right to freedom of expression.
“The construction of a robust democracy is a complex task, especially in those countries emerging from conflict. Press freedom plays a vital role in this and  journalists must be able to work without fearing for their lives, if they are to fulfill their responsibilities. Every effort must therefore be deployed to find the killers of Farhan James Abdulle and bring them to justice. There must be no impunity.”
Abdulle, 27, was a reporter for Radio Daljir – Galkayo branch.   He is the fifth journalist to be murdered in Somalia in this year.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20770-unesco-director-general-condemns-murder-somali-journalist-farhan-james-abdulle




Date: 07 May 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General urges stronger safety for media workers in Somalia following killing of journalist Daud Ali Omar
Content: 07 May 2015
“I condemn the murder of Daud Ali Omar and of his wife,” the Director-General said. “Somali journalists, have been paying an unacceptably high price for trying to keep the people of Somalia informed. It is essential that the authorities do all in their power to improve the safety of journalists. This means that they cannot allow such horrific crimes to go unpunished.”
Daud, 35, was a producer for the local, privately owned station Radio Baidoa.
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.” These statements are posted on a dedicated webpage, UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20782-unesco-director-general-urges-stronger-safety-media-workers-somalia-following-killing




Date: 15 April 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General urges improved safety for journalists in Somalia and denounces murder of reporter Mahad Salad Adan
Content: 15 April 2015
“I condemn the murder of Mahad Salad Adan in Somalia where all too many journalists are paying with their life for exercising their profession and trying to uphold the fundamental human right to free expression,” the Director-General said. “I call on the authorities and on the belligerent factions in Somalia to respect the civilian status of journalists and let them provide their essential contribution to public debate.”
Adan, the correspondent of the Shabelle Media Network, is reported to have been killed by three gunmen near his home in the village of Howlwadag, in western Beledeweyne, the capital of Hiran on 5 April.
On the same day he had reported on a conflict between factions in the district of Mahas, which is part of Hiran.
Seventeen journalists and media workers, including Mahad Salad Adan, have been killed in Somalia since 2008. They are listed on the dedicated webpage, UNESCO Remembers Assassinated Journalists.
In 2011, UNESCO provided equipment and training on safety issues, conflict-sensitive journalism and humanitarian reporting to more than 40 media professionals in Somalia. The purpose of this assistance was to enhance the quality and flow of humanitarian information in the country and neighbouring refugee camps. In the previous year, UNESCO, in collaboration with Radio Netherlands Training Centre (RNTC), trained 20 Somali community radio journalists, helping them improve their ability to work in an environment marked by conflict.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20771-unesco-director-general-urges-improved-safety-journalists-somalia-and-denounces-murder




Date: 05 April 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns murder of Somalian journalist Mohamed Ibrahim Rageh
Content: 05 April 2015
“I condemn the murder of Mohamed Ibrahim Rageh,” declared the Director-General. “His name is a sad addition to the all too long list of reporters and media professionals killed in the line of duty in Somalia.”
According to the NGO Reporters Without Border, Mohamed Ibrahim Rageh, a journalist, presenter and producer for public broadcasters Radio Mogadishu and Somali National TV was killed by two armed men outside his house in Ma’ma’anka, in Mogadishu.
Mohamed Ibrahim Rageh had recently returned to Somalia after several years in exile in Kenya and Uganda. A former member of the National Union of Somali Journalists and presenter at Radio Shabelle, he resigned from both in 2009 after receiving death threats from members of the Al-Shabaab militia.
Mohamed Ibrahim Rageh is the third Somali journalist whose death has been condemned by UNESCO so far this year. The list of killed journalists is to be found on the dedicated page, UNESCO Condemns the Killing of Journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20773-unesco-director-general-condemns-murder-somalian-journalist-mohamed-ibrahim-rageh




Date: 28 March 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General deplores murder of Somali radio journalist Rahmo Abdulkadir
Content: 28 March 2015
“I condemn the murder of Rahmo Abdulkadir. Her name joins a long list of journalists who have been lost their lives in Somalia,” declared the Director-General. “Media professionals must be able to work in secure conditions to fulfill their mission. Impunity for crimes against them must not be tolerated; it increases their vulnerability and compromises freedom of expression for all.”
Rahmo Abdulkadir, 25, worked for Radio Abduwaq, a privately owned radio station. According to media reports, she was shot down by two men, who then fled the scene.
Rahmo Abdulkadir is the 40th journalist or media professional killed in Somalia. She is remembered on the dedicated web page UNESCO Condemns the Killing of Journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20772-unesco-director-general-deplores-murder-somali-radio-journalist-rahmo-abdulkadir




Date: 12 March 2015
Title: Japan and ILO launch Durable Solutions for Somali Refugee returnees project in Baidoa, Somalia
Content: 12 March 2015
The Government of Japan and the International Labour Organization (ILO) launched a partnership to promote durable solutions for Somali refugee returnees through sustainable livelihoods. The Japan ILO partnership programme has identified two areas of focus in creating dignity in employment:
i) Creating immediate decent work opportunities for returnees and improve community infrastructure
ii) Creating opportunities and providing the necessary skills for self-employment for increased household income promoting self-reliance.
The one year technical cooperation project titled ‘Durable Solutions for Somali refugee returnees and IDPs in Baidoa through promoting immediate and sustainable livelihoods’ is funded by the Government of Japan under the 2015 supplementary budget for an amount of USD 1 million. The project supports the economic reintegration of spontaneous and/or facilitated group returns to Baidoa and create 700 short-term jobs, 44,100 worker days, 360 direct beneficiaries for the skill development component, 110 grants will be issued to support start-ups. The objective of the project is to create viable employment-based reintegration livelihood opportunities for returnees and host communities in support of TICAD V1 priority on ensuring the livelihoods and employment creation for the people of Somalia. The main target group for the project is the youth returnees and internally displaced persons (IDPs) who are not employed, do not have any source of income, and are potential target for radicalization. Host communities will also be included in the target group, comprising 30% of the final beneficiaries to promote peaceful co-existence and social integration. The project will also engage the local authorities in the selection and prioritization of the proposed intervention ensuring they fit in with the local plans and assist good governance, promote inclusiveness and secure peace dividends by facilitating economic exchanges and collaboration between returnees and the host community, the project will also contribute to improved social cohesion in the target areas.
An integral part of the project is the contribution of Community Road Empowerment (CORE), an international NGO registered in Japan, building on the successful introduction of Do-nou2 technologies in Baidoa, Somalia during the last year. This next year will witness more people trained on marketable skills in Do-nou technologies as we see the technology being taken up by communities wishing to develop all year access to markets and services. This will be backed by a rapid programme for business incubation and mentorship for these beneficiaries who were trained in the first phase in order to sustain the results achieved so far. This will also ensure completeness of intervention as part of the institutional and technical capacity building of the partner institutions.
The project is directly linked to the UNHCR’s repatriation and integration programme for refugees and IDPs in Somalia and will be implemented in close collaboration with the refugee consortium partners (UNHCR, IOM, DRC and NRC). Linkages with the Joint Programme Local Governance (JPLG) will be ensure issues specific to returnees/IDPs are integrated into broader local governance and recovery initiatives to enhance the on-going peace and reconciliation effort as outlined in the Somali Compact.
1 Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD), Special conference on Somalia, Yokohama, Japan, 31 May, 2013
2 Do-nou is a Japanese word which means wrapping soil in a gunny bag. “Do-nou” technology involves use of gunny bags filled appropriately with either sand, farm soil, gravel and the opening properly secured. Such Do-nou bags are laid in rows within the excavated sections of roads and compacted. http://michibushinbito.ecnet.jp/Do-nou.html

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34375-japan-and-ilo-launch-durable-solutions-somali-refugee-returnees-project-baidoa-somalia




Date: 28 February 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns killings of Somali radio director Abukar Hassan Mohamoud and journalist Ali Ahmed Abdi
Content: 28 February 2015
“I condemn the murders of Abukar Hassan Mohamoud and Ali Ahmed Abdi,” the Director-General said. “I am deeply concerned to see that so many Somali journalists and media workers are dying for exercising the fundamental human right of freedom of expression and their professional obligation to inform the public. Letting such murders go unpunished only encourages their perpetrators to continue using violence to repress debate,” concluded Ms Bokova.
Abukar Hassan Mohamoud, 43, also known as Kadaf, was shot dead by two armed men in his home on 28 February in Mogadishu. As the director of Radio Somaliweyn, he had started working just a few days earlier on re-launching broadcasts of the radio station, which had been attacked and looted by an armed group in 2010. The radio has only been operating online since then.
Ali Ahmed Abdi, a reporter for Radio Galkayo, was shot dead by unidentified gunmen in the north-central city of Galkayo on 4 March. Mr Abdi, who was in his mid-twenties, also worked as an online journalist.
Sixteen Somali journalists and media workers, including Abukar Hassan Mohamoud and Ali Ahmed Abdi, have been listed on UNESCO’s dedicated webpage, UNESCO Remembers Assassinated Journalists since 2008.
In 2011, UNESCO provided equipment and training on safety issues, conflict-sensitive journalism and humanitarian reporting to more than 40 media professionals in Somalia. The purpose of this assistance was to enhance the quality and flow of humanitarian information in the country and neighbouring refugee camps. In 2010, UNESCO, in collaboration with Radio Netherlands Training Centre (RNTC), provided training to 20 Somali community radio journalists, helping them improve their ability to work in an environment marked by conflict.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20776-unesco-director-general-condemns-killings-somali-radio-director-abukar-hassan-mohamoud-and




Date: 20 January 2015
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns murder of Somali journalist Hassan Osman Abdi and urges Somalia to improve media safety
Content: 20 January 2015
“The murder of Hassan Osman Abdi is a severe blow to a country where the media have paid a heavy price for exercising the human right to freedom of expression. The death of journalists undermines the right of people to be kept informed. Somalia’s reconciliation and reconstruction will not take place without securing respect for these two rights.  I call on the authorities to take urgent measures to improve the safety of journalists and investigate the murder of Mr. Hasan Osman Abdi.”
Hassan Osman Abdi (29) was a journalist and director for Shabelle Media Network, a private radio and television network in Somalia.  He was killed on 28 January at his home in the capital, Mogadishu. According to local sources, Abdi was shot dead by five gunmen after returning from Radio Shabelle, where he worked on political issues.
Twenty-one Somali journalists and media workers have been listed on UNESCO’s dedicated webpage, UNESCO Remembers Assassinated Journalists, since 2006.
In 2011, UNESCO provided equipment and training on safety issues, conflict-sensitive journalism and humanitarian reporting to more than 40 media professionals in Somalia. The purpose of this assistance was to enhance the quality and flow of humanitarian information in the country and neighbouring refugee camps. In 2010, UNESCO, in collaboration with Radio Netherlands Training Centre (RNTC), provided training to 20 Somali community radio journalists, helping them improve their ability to work in an environment marked by conflict.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20777-unesco-director-general-condemns-murder-somali-journalist-hassan-osman-abdi-and-urges-somalia




Date: 24 November 2014
Title: UNESCO Director-General condemns the killing of Abdirisak Ali Abdi in Somalia
Content: 24 November 2014
“I condemn the killing of Abdirisak Ali Abdi,” said the Director-General. “I call on the authorities to take every possible measure to protect the safety of journalists and to improve their ability to do their work keeping the public informed. Every effort must be made to bring those responsible for the killing of Abdirisak Ali Abdi to trial.”
Abdi, 25, was shot dead by two assailants in a restaurant in Galkayo in Puntland on Tuesday. He was a contributor to various media including Radio Daljir and HornCable TV.
The Director-General of UNESCO issues statements on the killing of media workers in line with Resolution 29 adopted by UNESCO Member States at the Organization’s General Conference of 1997, entitled “Condemnation of Violence against Journalists.” These statements are posted on a dedicated webpage, UNESCO condemns the killing of journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20783-unesco-director-general-condemns-killing-abdirisak-ali-abdi-somalia




Date: 16 September 2014
Title: Accelerating the implementation of the Decent Work Programme for Somalia
Content: 16 September 2014
The International Labour Organization (ILO) and its tripartite constituents from Somalia, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (MOLSA), the Federation of Somali Trade Unions (FESTU) and the Somali Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) agreed to speed up the implementation of the Decent Work Programme for Somalia.
The ILO Country Director for Somalia and Ethiopia, Mr George Okutho, held first-ever joint tripartite meeting in Cairo, Egypt, on 16 September 2014 with the Minister of Labour & Social Affairs of Somalia, Honourable Luqman Ismail Mohamed; Director General of Somali Chamber of Commerce & Industry (SCCI), Mr Abdi Abshir Dorre, and General Secretary of the Federation of Somali Trade Unions (FESTU), Mr Omar Faruk Osman.
ILO and its Somalia constituents formed a National Steering Committee (NSC) and Technical Working Group (TWG) for the implementation of Decent Work Programme, and approved their terms of reference (TOR). The meeting also agreed decent work programme implementation plan.
The meeting was conducted in an honest, open, constructive and results-oriented manner. The Government and social partners expressed their strong political and social will and commitment to see the full implementation of the DWP as major contribution to bringing about peace, stability and development in Somalia and for Somali people.
The tripartite partners and ILO signed a joint statement of commitment and cooperation so as to achieve priority areas identified in Decent Work Programme for Somalia, which aims at facilitating the delivery of ILO’s financial and technical support towards the achievement of sustainable reduction of poverty through the tripartite partners.
Prime Minister of Federal Republic of Somalia, Honourable Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed, and ILO Regional Director, Mr Aeneas Chapinga Chuma, signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the DWP on 20th March 2014 in Geneva, Switzerland.

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34376-accelerating-implementation-decent-work-programme-somalia




Date: 19 August 2014
Title: Somali Government and partners renew commitment to end preventable deaths of mothers and children
Content: 19 August 2014
Prime Minister Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed said that the launch of Somalia’s national maternal and child health acceleration plan to improve maternal and child health, alongside the campaign on accelerated reduction of maternal mortality in Africa (CARMMA) and the State of the World’s Midwifery Report 2014 represented a milestone for the women and children of the country.
"For too long we have failed to provide mothers and children with their basic rights to good health and good quality health care,” he said. “This Government is committed to ensuring that this will change. The children are the future of our nation and we must give them every possible assistance to have a good start in life."
The maternal and child health acceleration plan, which is a result of the saving the lives of mothers and children initiative launched regionally at a high-level meeting last year by WHO, UNICEF and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), to prioritize the health of women and children will be rolled out in several Somalia regions targeting more than a million children and women.
At the same time, the African Union’s CARMMA will employ advocacy at all levels to help Somalia progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goal of reducing maternal mortality by three quarters between 1990 and 2015.
The event also included the launch of the State of the World’s Midwifery Report 2014, coordinated by UNFPA and WHO which provides important data on midwifery in 73 countries including Somalia.
During the launch in Mogadishu, Dr Ala Alwan, WHO Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean, congratulated the Somali Government for prioritizing maternal and child health: “Their sustained efforts to reduce suffering and deaths among children and women have started yielding fruits and much more is expected in the coming months with the renewed commitment and engagement that we are all taking today,” he said.
“These are important initiatives – we must now make sure they are put into action and help to ensure that we see an end to preventable maternal mortality, newborn and child deaths – creating a solid foundation for the future.” Phillipe Lazzarini, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia told the audience which included Government and UN officials, NGOs, civil society and the media.
Somalia’s health sector has been largely destroyed by more than 20 years of war and neglect which has taken its toll on the population. An estimated one in five children dies before their fifth birthday with the main causes including pneumonia, diarrhoea and measles - as well as infections and other problems in the first month of life.
CARMMA was initiated by the African Union Commission in 2009 and 44 countries in Africa have now launched it.
“The launch of CARMMA will ensure that we see a strong health system and real commitment by all the authorities to prioritizing health and strengthen reproductive and emergency obstetric care services particularly in the most difficult to reach areas,” said Cheikh Cisse, UNFPA Somalia Representative.
“For too long, Somalia has been dominated by destruction and violence,” said Oscar Butragueno, UNICEF Somalia Officer in Charge. ”It is time to give the children a chance to survive and thrive and these campaigns will help them to have the best start in life.”
Read the press release in Somali

Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20819-somali-government-and-partners-renew-commitment-end-preventable-deaths-mothers-and-children




Date: 22 July 2014
Title: Polio transmission ongoing in Somalia
Content: 22 July 2014
The warning came at the start of the latest vaccination campaign in Puntland, north east Somalia, where all of this year’s cases were discovered in the remote Jariban district in Mudug region. Three of them are children under 10 years old and an adult aged 29 who subsequently died. None of them had been vaccinated against polio before. This current round of vaccinations will run until 25 July and will target close to half a million children under the age of 10 years in the outbreak area and eight surrounding districts.
“Responding to the polio outbreak is one of the top priorities of the UN and the humanitarian community at large,” said the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia, Philippe Lazzarini. “We need to continue supporting the Somali health authorities to achieve a polio-free Somalia.”
In May 2013, the first case of polio in six years was discovered in the country’s capital Mogadishu. At the time it was estimated that over half a million children under five living in the inaccessible areas had not been vaccinated.
“Somalia has made a lot of progress towards stopping polio transmission, with the support of UNICEF and WHO, but it needs the final push to be polio-free once again,” said Dr Ghulam Popal, WHO Somalia Representative who is in Galkayo to oversee the latest campaign implementation.
Since the beginning of the outbreak, more than 1.5 million children under five have been vaccinated along with 5.5 million over five years, including adults, in the accessible areas.
“It is a tragedy that so many Somali children have been paralysed by this virus and their lives ruined – when the vaccination is freely available,” said Sikander Khan, UNICEF Somalia Representative. “Polio is highly infectious and every child who has not been properly vaccinated against polio is at risk from paralysis or even death.”
The polio virus can be quickly transmitted through water or food contaminated with human waste from an infected person. Proper sanitation is one way to prevent it spreading. There is no cure for polio and the vaccine – which is just two drops in the mouth - is safe, effective and prevents paralysis. Children should be vaccinated several times to ensure they are protected for life and adults too can carry the virus.
Read the press release in Somali
Link
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20818-polio-transmission-ongoing-somalia




Date: 10 June 2014
Title: Measles threatens thousands of Somali children
Content: 10 June 2014
In March and April 2014 there were over 1350 suspected cases of measles – four times the number seen during the same period last year and nearly 1000 cases were reported in May alone.
In response, the health authorities, with the support of UNICEF, the World Healh Organization (WHO) and partners, have conducted small scale vaccination campaigns and will carry out larger emergency campaigns in the most affected areas of Bari, Nugaal, Mudug, Banadir and Lower Juba in June targeting half a million children under five.
"We have a very high number of malnourished Somali children," said Sikander Khan, UNICEF Somalia Representative. "Malnourished children here are more susceptible to disease and are more likely to die or suffer life-long disability such as blindness, deafness or brain damage as a result of contracting measles."
Two decades of conflict have decimated Somalia’s health sector, leaving the country with some of the worst health and nutrition indicators in the world. An estimated one in five children dies before their fifth birthday – with measles as one of the main causes.
"This is extremely alarming. There is a very poor health care system due to the years of conflict," said Dr Ghulam Popal, WHO Somalia Representative."We know there have been extremely low immunization rates among Somali children and we need to urgently ensure as many as possible are vaccinated."
It is estimated that less than a third of Somali children under one year were vaccinated against measles in 2013 through routine immunization services. In some areas in central and southern Somalia insecurity has meant that immunization coverage is as low as 15%.
WHO and UNICEF say that a nationwide measles campaigns need to be urgently conducted to prevent thousands of avoidable deaths. This would involve vaccinating about 5 million children and youth from 9 months to 15 years at an estimated cost of US$ 9 million.
WHO estimates that in complex emergencies such as that in Somalia, 10% of children affected by measles could die from complications.
Read the press release in Somali

Link
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20817-measles-threatens-thousands-somali-children




Date: 06 May 2014
Title: Essential Package of Health Services launched in Somalia to improve maternal and child health
Content: 06 May 2014
The Essential Package of Health Services, Somalia’s newly adopted framework for primary health care services, will aim to improve health across the board. The core programmes are - to improve maternal, reproductive, and neonatal and child health; combat communicable disease; improve surveillance and control, including water and sanitation promotion; provide first-aid and care of critically ill and injured; treatment of common illnesses and HIV, sexually transmitted infections, and tuberculosis.
“The EPHS holds a great promise for child survival and development, and reduced maternal mortality. It will also standardize, harmonize and integrate the basic health care services in the country,” said the Federal Government’s Acting/Deputy Health Minister Dr Ahmed Aden Ahmed. “I want to commend the continued support and collaboration of our UN partners and donor agencies for helping us to strengthen service delivery for the Somali people.”
Two decades of conflict have decimated Somalia’s health sector, leaving the country with some of the worst health and nutrition indicators in the world. An estimated one in five children dies before their fifth birthday. The main causes of death are pneumonia, diarrhoea and measles - as well as infections and other problems in the first month of life. In addition, every two hours a Somali woman loses her life due to pregnancy related complications.
“The UN is committed to support rebuilding Somalia’s shattered health care system. Strengthening our joint efforts to scale-up action on reproductive, maternal, newborn and child survival is an integral step in this effort,” said Phillipe Lazzarini, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia.
The Somali health authorities working with the support of UNICEF, WHO and UNFPA will roll out the EPHS in nine regions across the country. It will ensure a wider range of services, that health facilities are better equipped and open for longer hours and there are an increased number of health care workers.
“The launch of EPHS is another important step in combating maternal and child deaths and illnesses through a collective, complete response,” said Sikander Khan, UNICEF Somalia Representative. “It is the responsibility of us all - donors, UN agencies, the authorities and communities to make this work.”
The EPHS which is currently supported by the Joint Health and Nutrition programme is also in line with the New Deal initiative, the Somali Compact and the Somali Six Pillar policy for peace building and state-building. In addition, it contributes to the implementation of the Health and Nutrition Policies and the Somali Health Sector Strategic Plan.
“Strengthening the health system is the best approach to improve health outcomes; and the provision of EPHS is a corner stone to saving the lives of mothers and children,” said Dr Ghulam Popal, WHO Somalia Representative
EPHS is being implemented through a range of partners, chosen by the Government, to help take the package to hard to reach areas.
“EPHS will enable rural and the poor populations benefit from a holistic health package that will provide a base for further strengthened reproductive and emergency obstetric care services,” said Cheikh Cisse, UNFPA Somalia Representative.
The EPHS initiative, which will continue until the end of 2016, will also focus on the development of institutional capacities, through training of health workers, support for policy development and health sector reform.
Read the press release in Somali
For more information, please contact:
UNICEF: Susannah Price
+254 722 719867
sprice@unicef.org
WHO: Raffaella Vicentini
+254 716 215170
vicentinir@nbo.emro.who.int

Link
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20816-essential-package-health-services-launched-somalia-improve-maternal-and-child-health




Date: 20 March 2014
Title: ILO, Somalia sign agreement to promote decent work
Content: 20 March 2014
H.E. Dr Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed Mohamed, Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia and Mr. Aeneas Chapinga Chuma, ILO Regional Director for Africa signed the agreement at an official ceremony held at ILO headquarters in Geneva.
The Decent Work Programme sets out priority areas to be implemented by 2015, including the promotion of youth employment, strengthening labour market services, improving livelihoods through immediate employment creation and promoting small and medium enterprises. These areas are key to supporting the New Deal Compact for Somalia .
The ILO will provide technical support for the effective implementation of the Decent Work Programme, which is meant as a major contribution to peace and stability in Somalia.
In addition to the signing of the Decent Work Programme, the Government of Somalia deposited with the ILO the instruments of ratification for the following ILO conventions: Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention , 1948 (No. 87), Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention , 1949 (No. 98) and Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention , 1999 (No. 182).
For more information or interview requests, please contact the ILO Somalia Programme, Tel: +25420/762-1150, infosomalia@ilo.org , the ILO Department of Communication, Tel: +4122/799-7912, communication@ilo.org .

Link to original
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/34377-ilo-somalia-sign-agreement-promote-decent-work




Date: 06 November 2012
Title: UNESCO Director-General deeply concerned about killing of Somali radio satirist Warsame Shire Awale
Content: 06 November 2012
“I am appalled by the shooting of Warsame Shire Awale, who appears to have been killed because of his denunciation of violence against civilians. It is essential that the authorities take action against the perpetrators of such crimes which are used to terrorise a whole society and prevent its members, including journalists, from speaking freely in public. Freedom of expression is a basic human right which no society can afford to live without.”
Warsame Shire Awale, a writer, singer, comedian and radio personality, worked as a satirist for Radio Kulmiye. He was shot dead near his house in Mogadishu. According to reports by the National Union of Somali Journalists, he had recently received death threats related to comments he made about gunmen who kill civilians.
This murder brings to 18 the number of journalists and media personalities killed in Somalia this year alone. Their cases are to be found on the dedicated internet page UNESCO Condemns the Killing of Journalists.
Link to original story
UNSOS Compound, Phase 7A, Mogadishu
URL: https://somalia.un.org/en/20784-unesco-director-general-deeply-concerned-about-killing-somali-radio-satirist-warsame-shire




