Date: 08 April 2024
Title: Global efforts needed to combat waste trafficking to Southeast Asia, new research by UNODC and UNEP reveals
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
08 April 2024
‎
Bangkok (Thailand), 2 April 2024 - A first-ever mapping of waste trafficking trends from Europe to Southeast Asia has been published today. Produced by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), the new research sheds light on how criminal actors exploit legal trade and regulatory and enforcement loopholes for financial gain. It also explores the negative impact this crime has on the global circular economy.
Southeast Asia remains a key destination for illicit waste shipments, the report reveals, with Europe, North America, and Asia identified as primary regions of origin. Common tactics include false declarations, a lack of or incorrect notifications to circumvent regulations and avoid controls, along with missing or inadequate licenses or documents.
“In today’s globalized world, waste management has become an increasingly pressing concern in which production, consumption habits, waste crime, waste trafficking, corruption, organized crime, money laundering, and the circular economy are intertwined,” said Masood Karimipour, UNODC Regional Representative for Southeast Asia and the Pacific. “The crime of waste trafficking is taking away the value that legal, well-regulated waste trade brings to sustainable economies.”
Data collected from four Southeast Asian countries, three major European Union ports, and international enforcement operations highlight efforts in tackling illegal waste shipments by both origin and destination countries. However, despite regulatory and enforcement measures implemented by countries in which illegal waste ends up — such as Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Viet Nam — waste trafficking continues to pose a major challenge in the region.
“Waste trafficking is a crime that has a profound impact on the environment, bringing high profits and low risks to perpetrators. If we are to fight this crime, we must change this by closing regulatory gaps, increasing enforcement, and strengthening cooperation at home and abroad,” said Preeyaporn Suwannaked, Director-General of the Pollution Control Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment of Thailand.
The report, titled Turning the Tide: A Look Into the European Union-to-Southeast Asia Waste Trafficking Wave, is a flagship within a series of publications that explore corruption, cybercrime, and legal loopholes as causes behind the problem. It is part of a comprehensive project (Unwaste) to address waste trafficking and its impact on the global circular economy.
“The environmental impacts of waste trafficking are contributing to the pollution crisis and need to be addressed. To do this, we must pursue good environmental governance and robust environmental rule of law. Projects such as Unwasteare critical in tackling issues through a multi-sector, multi-disciplinary approach. UNEP is proud to be part of the project, which advances solutions aimed at ensuring a healthy planet and a sustainable future,” said Patricia Kameri-Mbote, Director of the Law Division in UNEP.
Key types of waste trafficked include plastic, e-waste, metal, and paper, with mixed materials, textiles, vehicle parts, industrial, and medical waste also frequently encountered. Upon arrival at destination, take-back or repatriation procedures are a major challenge as shipments often cannot be traced to their countries of origin. Abandoned or unclaimed containers at ports exacerbate the issue, further complicating enforcement and investigation efforts. As a result, most waste ends up in illegal landfills, the ocean, or burnt in the open.
Often, penalties are disproportionately low compared to the potential environmental and health damage inflicted on destination countries. The research also shows a concerning lack of available data to assess the full scale of waste trafficking and identify the connections between criminal actors involved.
The report, which has been financed by the European Union, stresses the urgent need for further regulatory reforms, enhanced international cooperation, capacity development, research, and data along with stricter enforcement measures to combat waste trafficking effectively.
Click here to access the report series.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/265435-global-efforts-needed-combat-waste-trafficking-southeast-asia-new-research-unodc-and-unep




Date: 08 January 2024
Title: High-ranking UN FAO Delegation begins Official visit to Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
08 January 2024
Bangkok, 8 Jan 2024 – A high-ranking delegation from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has today begun a three-day visit to the Kingdom of Thailand, led by the FAO Director-General, Dr QU Dongyu.
During this Official visit, the Director-General and delegation will pay courtesy calls on the Prime Minister of Thailand, Srettha Thavisin, and also the Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Thamanat Prompao.
Qu’s delegation, visiting from FAO headquarters in Rome, is travelling to a number of important sites, in and around the Thai capital, involving the Kingdom’s food systems transformation. Qu is joined by his Assistant Director-General and FAO Regional Representative for Asia and the Pacific, Jong-Jin Kim. FAO’s Chief Economist, Maximo Torero has also joined the delegation.
Thailand and FAO – a long and strong relationship, helping to feed a hungry world.
The Kingdom of Thailand, and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, have enjoyed a long and productive relationship. As a Member Nation of FAO, Thailand has also been hosting the FAO Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific in the Thai capital Bangkok since 1953.
“This visit to Thailand by the FAO Director-General, Dr QU Dongyu, is highly emblematic of the continuing and strengthening relationship between the Kingdom of Thailand and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO),” said Kim.
During their Mission to Thailand, the FAO delegation will visit a number of important sites, including Bang Kachao, known locally as Bangkok’s ‘green lung’, due to its location within the bustling city and its thriving mangrove ecosystem. The initiative is supported by the Royal Forestry Department and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration.
Also planned are visits to Talaad Thai Market, the largest food wholesale operation in Southeast Asia, and also to the government’s Department of Fisheries’ Monitoring Centre, where vessels are tracked using latest technology and innovation as part of Thailand’s contribution in support of the ‘Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing’. Thailand is a party to the PSMA.
Among other highlights, the delegation will visit the government’s Land Development Department, steward of the Soil Museum, and advances in soil technology. The commitment of Thailand to aid and collaborate with other countries in advancing sustainable soil management led to the establishment of the Center of Excellence for Soil Research in Asia (CESRA) under the Asian Soil Partnership in 2019. The Land Development Department, within the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, has invested significant efforts in CESRA's operation, and FAO has provided continuous support, both technically and financially.
The delegation will also visit an FAO Reference Centre for Antimicrobial Resistance, at the city’s Chulalongkorn University. FAO’s work with counterparts at the FAO Reference Centre and its laboratory is helping Thailand and the region deal with the growing problem of Antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
The original press release is published on FAO
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/257389-high-ranking-un-fao-delegation-begins-official-visit-thailand




Date: 01 December 2023
Title: First-ever Assistant Secretary-General for Youth Affairs takes the helm at newly established United Nations Youth Office
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
01 December 2023
New York, UN Headquarters, (1 December 2023) — The global youth agenda enters a new era today, as the first-ever Assistant Secretary-General for Youth Affairs Dr. Felipe Paullier takes the lead at the newly established United Nations Youth Office.
Following the recommendation in the Secretary-General's groundbreaking report "Our Common Agenda", Member States unanimously agreed to the establishment of the UN Youth Office as a dedicated entity for youth affairs within the Secretariat, building upon more than a decade of work led by the Secretary-General's Envoys on Youth, and marking a pivotal breakthrough for the revitalization and expansion of the UN's engagement with and for youth.
Over many decades, the UN has made significant strides in advancing the rights and opportunities of young people. Youth empowerment is not just a matter of equity; it holds immense social and economic potential. Empowering young people drives vibrant societies, fosters innovation, and accelerates progress.
Yet, disparities affecting youth persist in every corner of the world. Young people face challenges such as limited access to education, employment and health services, and their voices often go unheard in decision-making processes.
"We are establishing a United Nations Youth Office in the UN Secretariat — building on nearly a decade of important work done by the two Envoys on Youth — to advance efforts towards stronger advocacy, coordination, and accountability for and with young people," said UN Secretary-General António Guterres.
The establishment of the UN Youth Office marks a pivotal breakthrough for the revitalization and expansion of the UN's engagement with and for youth, with a focus on addressing these challenges and opportunities.
Guided by the UN’s systemwide youth strategy, Youth2030, the UN Youth Office will lead efforts to enhance collaboration, coordination and accountability on youth affairs, ensuring that the United Nations works effectively and inclusively with young people in all their diversity.
Through the fostering of multi-stakeholder intergenerational solidarity, the UN Youth Office's mission focuses on strengthening meaningful, inclusive and effective youth engagement across all pillars of the UN’s work, including sustainable development, human rights, and peace and security.
On 28 October 2023, the Secretary-General announced Dr. Felipe Paullier as the first Assistant Secretary-General for Youth Affairs. Dr. Paullier officially assumes his mandate today, becoming the youngest ever senior appointment in the history of the UN.
“With the establishment of the UN Youth Office, we mark the start of a new era for the UN system,” said Dr. Felipe Paullier, Assistant Secretary-General for Youth Affairs. “As I assume my mandate, I am eager to begin meeting with young people from all corners of the world, both virtually and on-the-ground in their communities. Learning from young people’s experiences over the coming months will be critical in helping me to shape an action plan for the new Youth Office that ensures no young person is left behind.”
Dr. Paullier was previously the Director General of the National Youth Institute of Uruguay, a position he held since 2020. Prior to that, he served in various political management positions, including as Deputy Mayor in the Municipality of the CH jurisdiction of Montevideo (2015-2020) and Alternate Counsellor in the Montevideo Departmental Legislative Court (2010-2015). Dr. Paullier is a Medical Doctor specialized in Pediatrics by training.
About the UN Youth Office
As an unwavering champion and advocate for young people everywhere, the UN Youth Office envisions a world in which all young people are meaningfully engaged in the decisions that affect them most. We lead system-wide collaboration, coordination and accountability on youth affairs, harmonizing the ways the United Nations works with and for young people in all their diversity. By fostering multi-stakeholder intergenerational solidarity, our work focuses on strengthening meaningful, inclusive and effective youth engagement in the areas of sustainable development, human rights, and peace and security. For more information, follow @UNYouthAffairs on social media.
For press enquiries:
Matthew Hunter
matthew.hunter@un.org
+1 (631) 829-4275
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/254905-first-ever-assistant-secretary-general-youth-affairs-takes-helm-newly-established-united




Date: 28 November 2023
Title: Thailand among Asia Enforcement Awards winners tackling scourge of transboundary environmental crime
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
28 November 2023
Bangkok, 31 May 2023 – Government agencies and officials from Thailand, the Philippines, China, India, and Tanzania were announced today as recipients of the 2023 Asia Environmental Enforcement Awards for their standout efforts to combat transboundary environmental crime. The 8th edition of the Asia Environmental Enforcement Awards recognized action in the categories of impact, innovation, gender leadership, collaboration and Asia-Africa collaboration.
Transboundary environmental crime presents a serious threat in the Asia region. Illegal trade in wildlife undermines conservation efforts, harms economies, devastates livelihoods, and compromises ecosystems on which humans depend. The Asia region is also a destination for illegal transboundary movement of chemicals and waste.
“Governmental authorities working on environmental enforcement issues are on the frontline of efforts to combat transboundary environmental crime. Through this year’s Awards, we are recognizing and celebrating their critical and essential role and effort in doing so,” said Georgina Lloyd, UN Environment Programme (UNEP) Coordinator for Environmental Law and Governance for Asia and the Pacific.
The 2023 Awards were organized by the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), the Secretariat of the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal (Basel Convention), the Secretariat of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), UNEP, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the World Customs Organization (WCO). The award ceremony was held alongside the Global Wildlife Programme conference organized by the World Bank.
“The work of the award winners transcends boundaries and sets a benchmark for excellence. They are not only enforcing the law, but also safeguarding our environment, biodiversity, and the ecological balance of our planet,” said Akiko Yamamoto, UNDP Regional Environment and Energy Team Leader for Asia and the Pacific.
Jenna Dawson-Faber, Regional Programme Coordinator for Asia-Pacific, UNODC Global Programme on Crimes that Affect the Environment, said that the Asian Environmental Enforcement Award winners “represent the epitome of dedication to our shared values and planet. Their accomplishments serve as a testament to the importance of diversity and thoughtfulness in leadership and the collaborative commitment needed to combat crimes that affect the environment across borders and continents.”
The 2023 winners of the Asia Environmental Enforcement Awards are:
National Central Bureau Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania Police, Tanzania and National Central Bureau Bangkok, Royal Thai Police, Thailand
Category: Africa – Asia collaboration
The Tanzania Police and Royal Thai Police, collaborating through INTERPOL’s National Central Bureau (NCB) system, successfully apprehended suspects under investigation for wildlife crimes. In July 2022, the Tanzania Police contacted the Royal Thai Police via the NCB system concerning a passenger entering Thailand via Suvarnabhumi International Airport, Bangkok. Upon inspection, 116 live tortoises, with a combined estimated worth of 900,000 Thai baht (approximately USD 24,590 at the time), were found hidden in the passenger’s luggage. Among the tortoises were the critically endangered Radiated Tortoise and Pancake Tortoise. The tortoises were seized, handed over to wildlife officials, and transferred to the Bang Pra Water Bird Breeding Center in Chonburi Province, Thailand.
Ms. Jewel Padullon, Philippines Department of Environment and Natural Resources Region XIII
Category: Gender Leadership
Ms. Padullon has played a pivotal role in the series of surveillance and apprehensions throughout the Caraga Administrative Region on the island of Mindanao as part of the implementation of the Philippines Department of Environment and Natural Resources’ anti-illegal logging activities. She has demonstrated exceptional leadership in investigating highly known hotspots for the illegal sale of Xanthostemon verdugonianus, commonly known as mangkono or “Philippine ironwood,” which is classified as “vulnerable” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.
Community Rangers Program, Department of Wildlife and National Parks of Peninsular Malaysia
Category: Collaboration
The Department of Wildlife and National Parks of Peninsular Malaysia Community Rangers program, launched in 2020, is comprised of Malaysian Army and Royal Malaysia Police veterans, indigenous peoples and local communities. In total, some 1,000 community rangers serve across 120 posts to combat poaching and encroachment on protected areas, including national parks, wildlife reserves and forest reserves. The diverse skills and experiences these groups bring have enhanced enforcement, with the initiative working to improve socio-economic conditions and reduce natural resource dependency.
Mr. Jagdish Bakan, Tamil Nadu Forest Department, Wildlife Warden of Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park and Director of Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve, India
Category: Impact (individual)
Under Mr. Bakan’s leadership as Wildlife Warden of Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park and Director of Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve in India, the Tamil Nadu Forest Department has taken concrete action to address the illegal commercial harvesting and trade in sea cucumber. The tonnage of seizures of illegally harvested sea cucumber has increased significantly year-over-year, serving to deter and disrupt transboundary wildlife crime. Mr. Bakan has also initiated enforcement action to prevent plastic from entering the ocean, establishing a self-sustaining and community-operated plastic check posts. Nearly 40 tonnes of plastic waste have been kept out of the ocean thanks to these efforts.
Joint Task Force on Risk Analysis and Enforcement, Anti-Smuggling Bureau, Risk Management Division and Shenzhen Post Office Customs, affiliates to Shenzhen Customs, China
Category: Innovation
Between 1 June 2022 and 30 June 2023, the Joint Task Force on Risk Analysis and Enforcement in Shenzhen, China supervised the customs clearance process of more than 20 million parcels and express couriers. Following initial review, 160,000 of these were targeted and selected for further examination, based on risk profiling and intelligence. As a result of the efforts of the Joint Task Force, 13 parcels suspected of wildlife trafficking were seized and four suspects were arrested in destination jurisdictions, thanks to cross-border controlled delivery.
Philippine National Police Maritime Group
Category: Impact (team)
The Philippine National Police Maritime Group has taken a proactive approach to wildlife law enforcement by actively engaging in cyber patrolling and surveillance on social media platforms. These measures have significantly contributed to the success of entrapment operations, allowing the group to identify and apprehend individuals involved in illegal wildlife activities conducted online. From June 2022 to May 2023, the Maritime Police executed 997 wildlife enforcement operations. These targeted operations led to the confiscation of 3,717 wildlife species. By effectively using technology to gather intelligence, the agency has bolstered its enforcement capabilities, leading to successful operations and apprehension of wildlife perpetrators.
NOTES TO EDITORS
About the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)
UNEP is the leading global voice on the environment. It provides leadership and encourages partnership in caring for the environment by inspiring, informing and enabling nations and peoples to improve their quality of life without compromising that of future generations.
About the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
With its Global Programme, UNODC supports just and effective responses to crimes that affect the environment, through comprehensive and coordinated efforts across and between all the actors in the criminal justice chain.
For more information, please contact:
David Cole, Public Information Officer, UNEP Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
The original press release is published on UNEP.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/254196-thailand-among-asia-enforcement-awards-winners-tackling-scourge-transboundary-environmental




Date: 24 November 2023
Title: Thailand partners recognize communities’ contribution to HIV response success
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
24 November 2023
Ahead of World AIDS Day, stakeholders note Thai progress toward ending AIDS as a public health threat and call for full investment in community leadership.
BANGKOK, (24 November 2023) – Today leaders working on HIV issues across Thailand came together to celebrate the meaningful contribution of communities to Thailand’s strong HIV response. The event was held ahead of World AIDS Day which will be commemorated on December 1 with the theme “Let Communities Lead”. From the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Thailand (FCCT) in Bangkok, the group also called for full investment, policy and legal support in community leadership to accelerate progress and ensure no one is left behind.
Thailand is on track to meet the 95-95-95 Global AIDS Strategy testing and treatment targets by 2025. By the end of 2022 an estimated 90% of people living with HIV were aware of their status. Ninety percent (90%) of diagnosed people were on treatment and an impressive 97% of those on treatment achieved a suppressed viral load. Viral suppression (dramatically reducing the level of the virus in the blood) makes people living with HIV healthier and sharply reduces the chance that they pass on the virus. People with an undetectable viral load have zero chance of infecting others.
Thailand is fully committed to ending AIDS as a public health threat as part of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goal agenda. The country is internationally recognized for its 'peer-to-peer' approach, initiated in 1996. This is a framework that allows people living with HIV (PLHIV) to support each other. This initiative has grown into a network encompassing district, provincial, and national levels, evolving into what is now known as the 'Comprehensive Care Center' (CCC). Currently, there are approximately 219 such CCC networks nationwide.
Surang Janyam, Chairperson of the Thai Non-Governmental Organization Coalition on AIDS (TNCA) and Director of the Service Workers in Group Foundation (SWING), emphasized the community's transformation from service recipients to co-providers, known as Community Health Workers, under Universal Health Coverage (UHC). This transition to Community-led Health Services marks a significant advancement in promoting community sustainability in the AIDS response.
Dr. Patchara Benjarattanaporn, Director of UNAIDS Thailand, underscored the critical role of community involvement in planning, service provision and advocacy.
“Communities’ contributions are crucial due to their deep understanding of the needs and barriers faced by key and vulnerable groups such as men who have sex with men, migrants, people who use drugs, service workers, transgender people and youth,” Dr. Patchara said.
Dr. Yupadee Sirisinsuk, Deputy Secretary-General of the National Health Security Office (NHSO), stressed that Community-led Health Services are key to Thailand's strategy to end AIDS. In 2023, the NHSO allocates 575.7 million THB for HIV prevention with 182.25 million THB of this funding specifically earmarked to support community organizations and NGOs. This approach has successfully reached numerous individuals with HIV prevention and testing services, facilitating faster and more effective treatment access. Current 39 community organizations have registered and become service units with the NHSO.
Evidence from the Meeting Targets and Maintaining Epidemic Control project (EpiC), supported by Family Health International (FHI) and the U.S. government's USAID/PEPFAR program, shows that Key Population-led Health Services achieve far earlier detection of HIV cases when compared to the national average. (The national average CD4 count at initial diagnosis stands at 172 cells/mm³, while for people reached by key population-led health services it is 429 cells/mm³).
To ensure quality, the Department of Disease Control, Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), Ratchasuda College, Mahidol University, and the Institute for HIV Research and Innovation have developed training curriculums for Community Health Workers. While MOPH established organizational accreditation. Dr. Niti Hetanurak, Deputy Director-General of the Department of Disease Control, Ministry of Public Health said that to date, 497 from MOPH and 88 from Ratchasuda College, in total of 585 Community Health Workers have been trained from these initiatives.
Professor Dr. Praphan Phanuphak, Senior Advisor on Research and Policy at the HIV Research and Innovation Institute and the first doctor to diagnose an AIDS patient in Thailand, remains optimistic about Thailand's ability to end AIDS. He believes this goal is achievable if policymakers fully invest in community-led responses and all sectors work together to support and revise policies and regulations that currently impede the work of community organizations.
Important inputs:
Satayu Sittikan, Director of the CareMat Foundation in Chiang Mai Province, noted that through Community Led Monitoring and the Stigma Index Survey, they have gathered data that highlights issues faced by the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex (LGBTQI+) community, such as barriers to HIV testing and immediate access to treatment, as well as experiences of stigma and discrimination. These data have led to significant improvements in services at several hospitals in Chiang Mai Province.
Pongthorn Chanlearn, Chairperson of the National Task Force on the HIV Stigma Index Survey in Thailand, spoke about the community network's role in conducting this survey from 2022-2023. Covering 25 provinces, the survey provides essential data on stigma and discrimination related to HIV – a significant concern in Thailand.
Nipakorn Nanta, Chairperson of the Foundation of Women Living with HIV in Thailand, led this survey and expressed pride in Thailand being one of the few countries where women living with HIV spearheaded such efforts. The Stigma Index data amplify previously unheard voices, revealing the impact of stigma and discrimination on pregnant women living with HIV, the complexities related to drug use and sexual and reproductive health.
Suhai Nong SamaHough, Manager of the Care Team Center in Songkhla, advocated for government support in providing comprehensive services and legal support for effective harm reduction for people who use drugs.
Dr. Sunthon Sunthornchart, Director of the Health Department of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), highlighted Bangkok's achievements since joining the Fast Track Cities initiative in 2014. Through robust partnerships with communities and other stakeholders, the city has earned national and international acclaim for its efficient HIV testing, same-day antiretroviral treatment, and the rapid scaling-up of pre-exposure prophylaxis or PrEP. (PrEP is treatment taken by an HIV negative person to avoid contracting the virus, if exposed.) These efforts have resulted in a decline of new HIV infections, especially among men who have sex with men.

For media enquiries, please contact
UNAIDS Thailand | Patchara Benjarattanaporn | benjarattanapornp@unaids.org
UNAIDS
The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) leads and inspires the world to achieve its shared vision of zero new HIV infections, zero discrimination and zero AIDS-related deaths. UNAIDS unites the efforts of 11 UN organizations—UNHCR, UNICEF, WFP, UNDP, UNFPA, UNODC, UN Women, ILO, UNESCO, WHO and the World Bank—and works closely with global and national partners towards ending the AIDS epidemic by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals. Learn more at unaids.org and connect with us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/253567-thailand-partners-recognize-communities%E2%80%99-contribution-hiv-response-success




Date: 21 November 2023
Title: More commitment key to keeping children safe: UN
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
21 November 2023
ㅤㅤ
Bangkok (November 21, 2023) – The UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative on Violence against Children, Dr. Najat Maalla M’jid, welcomed this week the continuing efforts by Thailand to boost children’s safety and wellbeing in the country’s national agenda, including through enhanced policy responses to protect children from violence online.
“Violence against children can only be prevented if we act now and act together,” said Dr. M’jid.
“Business as usual is no longer an option if Thailand is to avoid the devastating health, social, and economic impacts of childhood violence,” Dr. M’jid added. “We need a paradigm shift to see spending on integrated services for children - including education, physical and mental health, justice, child protection, and sustainable social protection - as a sound investment with a high return.”
The Special Representative’s in country visit, organized by the UN Resident Coordinator Office and UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) in Thailand, brings together a broad range of stakeholders on strategies to improve the child protection and welfare systems, noting measurable progress in Thailand’s legal framework since 2003.
During her visit, Dr. M’jid met with the Minister of Justice and high-level officials from Thailand's ministries of social development, education, and interior, the National Human Rights Commission, as well as children and youth. She also interacted with civil society representatives, and members of the UNICEF Thailand’s Young People’s Advisory Board, to understand progress and opportunities to fulfill the global commitment to end violence against children by 2030. Furthermore, Dr. M’jid met unaccompanied and separated children from neighboring countries at the Phoomvej shelter in Nonthaburi Province, managed by the Department of Children and Youth.
Key areas of the special representative’s discussions with the government included accelerating the adoption and implementation of laws and policies that protect children from all forms of violence and fully child-friendly justice procedures that respect children's best interests such as amendments to the Child Protection Act, Juvenile and Family Courts Act, and the Online Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse legislation. Among the areas discussed were investing in training and human resources for the social service workforce responding to violence, increasing support for the universal Child Support Grant, as well as developing a ‘Safe to Learn’ national roadmap to keep students safe and engaged in learning at school. The two main pledges on ending statelessness as well as ending deprivation of liberty for migrant children by 2024 are of utmost importance.
"They can certainly be achieved by continuing to invest in making processes clearer and more accessible, while also strengthening child protection at the local level." said Dr. M’jid. She emphasized that the UN in Thailand can provide a strong partnership and support to achieve these goals, making the country a great source of inspiration for many countries around the world.
During the visit, Dr. M’jid also launched the second ASEAN-ICT Forum on Child Online Protection, held in Bangkok this year, and championed comprehensive legal responses to address all forms of online sexual abuse and exploitation against children, amid spiralling cases worldwide. Internet users aged 12-17 in Thailand - or up to 400,000 children - are victims of online sexual exploitation and abuse cases per year. Yet, the challenges of under-reporting of cases remain, with a staggeringly low 1-3 per cent of children having filed such cases with police.
Every year, one billion children - or half the world’s youngsters - endure violence, including physical, sexual, psychological, and more recently, a rise in online aggression such as cyberbullying, sexual exploitation, hate speech, suicide, harmful and violent content, according to UN data.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/253728-more-commitment-key-keeping-children-safe-un




Date: 19 November 2023
Title: Turning Tragedy into Action: Advocacy and Survival on Thailand's Roads
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
19 November 2023
Road traffic accidents, a significant yet often overlooked crisis, continue to leave a trail of devastation for thousands of families each year. The World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims (WDoR), a global observance, is commemorated on the third Sunday of November each year. This year it falls on 19 November 2023 with the Don't Drive Drunk Foundation leading the commemoration in Thailand. In Thailand, road traffic accidents result in about 20,000 deaths and a million injuries each year, incurring an economic loss of 500,000 million baht. While drunk driving is a significant contributing factor, it is not the sole cause of these accidents. This photo essay goes beyond the statistics, portraying the real faces and stories of survivors, advocating for urgent reforms and heightened road safety awareness. It aims to transform impersonal data into powerful narratives of human resilience, underscoring the need for safer roads.
Mr. Jessada Yamsabai’s Path from Tragedy to Advocacy
Twenty years ago, Mr. Jessada’s life was forever changed by a drunk driver on Silom Road, leaving him with lower body paralysis. The photo captures the scars from this tragic accident, serving as a poignant reminder of that night and its lasting impact. It reflects not only the physical consequences but also the emotional and psychological challenges he endures, with his family's support.
Facing Injustice: Overcoming Emotional Pain
At his home in Klong Toey, Bangkok, Mr. Jessada wrestles with the profound emotional scars from his accident, which drove him to multiple suicide attempts. In this photo he expressed his frustration by the drunk driver's lack of accountability and the absence of support, he finds solace in his family, whose support is vital to his recovery. Turning his pain into purpose, Mr. Jessada now advocates for stronger road safety laws at the Don't Drive Drunk Foundation. He focuses on educating young and new drivers, especially teenagers, about the dangers of drunk driving, fostering a sense of responsibility and awareness among road users from a young age.
Mr. Prasom Suksawaeng - A Lesson in Responsibility and Redemption
Now 50, Mr. Prasom’s life took a dramatic turn when he was 30. This image captures the aftermath of his accident, which occurred as he sped to a job interview while still under the influence from the previous night's celebrations. The collision with a pickup truck led to the paralysis of his lower body, a permanent reminder of that fateful decision. This photo poignantly illustrates the long-lasting consequences of a momentary lapse in judgment, emphasizing the critical need for responsible driving behavior.
Turning Adversity into Opportunity: Education and Growth
In his journey of resilience and growth, Mr. Prasom is seen both embracing his workout routine, symbolizing his desire for independence and aversion to pity, and advancing his education with a master's degree and new digital skills. These images reflect his self-reliance and determination post-accident. In his role as a web admin at the Don't Drive Drunk Foundation, Mr. Prasom transforms his personal ordeal into a catalyst for societal change, analyzing road accident statistics to advocate for safer driving practices and stricter laws. His story powerfully underscores the importance of road safety and the consequences of responsible driving.

The Role of Advocates
From Optometrist to Advocate: The Birth of a Foundation
In the photo, Dr. Tairjing Siripanich, founder of the Don't Drive Drunk Foundation, showcases his deep interest in communication, a passion that began 30 years ago. His experience as an amateur radio operator opened his eyes to the realities of road traffic accidents, leading him to work with the Department of Medical Services, Ministry of Public Health Thailand, where he saw firsthand the consequences of intoxicated driving. This blend of medical knowledge and communication skills was crucial in his advocacy journey, culminating in the foundation's creation. Dr. Tairjing's enduring dedication emphasizes the importance of public and civil involvement in road safety, advocating for everyone's role as vigilant observers.
WHO Thailand and Advocates Transforming Road Safety
WHO Thailand stands with the Royal Thai Government in improving road safety. Through the Country Cooperation Strategy (CCS) on Road Safety Programme, WHO Thailand supported the 5th National Road Safety Master Plan (2022-2027) development with a strong foundation of international standards & frameworks such as the Safe System Approach and the Global Plan of Decade of Action for Road Safety (2021-2030). We also support the Master Plan implementation at the local governments and have planned to provide technical assistance to the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation to help Thailand to meet the targets by the end of the Master Plan and by the global commitment of the SDGs 2030. Since over 70% of road traffic deaths are motorcycle users, 100% helmet use, drunk-don’t-drive, and safe speed are main focuses of the CCS. These initiatives enhance the advocacy stories in our photo essay, emphasizing the power of collective action in ensuring road safety. Our focus on better injury surveillance data highlights our commitment to this cause. We encourage everyone to join us in this mission, drawing inspiration from the dedication portrayed in our photo essay to make Thailand's roads safer for all.
The original press release is published on WHO
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/253211-turning-tragedy-action-advocacy-and-survival-thailands-roads




Date: 27 October 2023
Title: UNDP and SEC launch SDG Guidebook for Listed Companies and SDG Impact Standards to support Thai Businesses integrate SDGs into business strategies and operations
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
27 October 2023
ㅤㅤ
Bangkok (October 27, 2023) – Today, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Thailand (SEC) together with its partners, Thai Listed Companies Association (TLCA) and Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT) are launching the SDG Guidebook for Thai Listed Companies and SDG Impact Standards.
The SDG Guidebook for Listed Companies is designed to act as a practical guideline for businesses to integrate the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into their business operations and strategies. The Guidebook also incorporates globally recognized tools and frameworks on impact measurement and management which businesses can refer to in their corporate reporting process on their positive contributions to social and environmental issues and in their SEC’s 56-1 One Report Disclosures.
The SDG Impact Standards are voluntary internal management standards designed to help businesses and investors embed sustainability and the SDGs into their management systems and decision-making practices by defining how their strategies, management approaches, transparency, and governance need to improve to operate sustainably and contribute positively to the SDGs.
Through various practical examples, the Guidebook and the Standards provide the framework to support organizations make better decisions on various sustainability issues from carbon reduction to waste management and inclusive workplace. It also guides organizations to reimagine business models and partnerships to innovate as well as to take action to mitigate risks and grasp opportunities that each goal presents.
Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, attended the event to share his expectations regarding sustainability in Thailand's business sector. He stated that “The SDG guidebook and the Impact Standards can be both a business opportunity and a new way to strengthen competitiveness for listed companies and the business sector in Thailand. Nowadays, companies want to invest in a country that has a clearer path toward sustainable development.”
Meanwhile, Ms. Gita Sabharwal, UN Resident Coordinator commended the progress made in supporting the Thai capital market to access best-practice tools and resources and increase their alignment with the SDGs. “As we take the agenda of SDG acceleration forward, we must do so with the full participation of the private sector. As captains of industry, businesses have the power to transform supply chains for across-the-board sustainability, and the SDG Guidebook for Listed Companies launched today provides that necessary tool to deepen private sector ESG alignments. The UN in Thailand very much looks forward to continue assisting the country’s historic green transition towards a prosperous, low-carbon, climate-resilient and just nation.”
The business sector is considered to play a crucial role in supporting Thailand to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, relying on an ecosystem that must begin with the vision of executive leaders and extend to promoting sustainable development investments. Pornanong Budsaratragoon, Secretary-General, Securities Exchange Commission of Thailand (SEC) said "The SEC is dedicated to building a capital market ecosystem that supports sustainable growth, with a focus on raising businesses’ awareness and integration of the ESG principles into their operation in line with the SDGs. We also emphasize the leadership role of company board members and senior executives in shaping the corporate value chain, and encourage investors to give more weight to responsible investments to establish a sustainable value chain and ecosystem. Additionally, we advocate for the use of new financial tools to mobilize private sector capital towards achieving the SDGs. This effort requires ongoing cooperation and support from relevant organizations, both domestically and internationally. We hope that the SDG Guidebook for Listed Companies and SDG Impact Standards will serve as a valuable resource that enhances Thai listed companies' knowledge and understanding of the SDGs, enabling them to incorporate the principles into business operations effectively, facilitating their information disclosure in line with global best practices, and empowering them to prepare accurate and comprehensive annual reports (56-1 One Report) in line with international standards. In essence, the SDG Guidebook can help to foster trust and confidence among investors and stakeholders across the entire business value chain."
The SDG guidebook and the SDG Impact Standards will be a tool that establishes new standards and benchmarks in conducting business, as well as helps create an environment of dedicated and sustainable business practices. Dr. Kobsak Pootrakul, Vice Chairman of Thai Listed Companies Association emphasized that "Sustainable development in the areas of the environment and human rights is an issue that the global community continuously emphasizes, and it has become a primary concern for every country, including Thailand. All sectors in Thailand, including the government, private sector, regulatory bodies, and all relevant stakeholders, have placed importance on and jointly set this as a goal in driving the sustainability of organizations and the nation. For example, the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has enhanced the disclosure of information in the annual report (56-1 One Report) to cover the environmental and human rights policies and practices of listed companies throughout the entire value chain. This has become a new standard for listed Thai companies in terms of learning, sharing experiences, comparing, and competing among themselves in an area of sustainability. It also involves incorporating the ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) into a company's business operations, which is a means to further develop and advance Thailand in achieving its mission of environmental preservation and global human rights protection."
Likewise, Suphachai Chearavanont, President of the Global Compact Network Association Thailand, stated that “the Global Compact Network Thailand aims to promote a 'Race to the Top,' encouraging businesses to compete in doing good and being innovative. The organization collaborates with partners across various sectors to support registered companies in Thailand, especially medium and small-sized companies, throughout the Thai supply chain. They also provide transparent, efficient, and accountable public sustainability reports and actively monitor and follow up on the results of these initiatives.”
To ensure the acceleration of progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals, Renaud Meyer, UNDP Resident Representative to Thailand, emphasized “the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals requires strong collaboration and a coordinated approach between all sectors of our societies. Government alone cannot do it alone. There is a shared responsibility between public and private sectors, between state and non-state actors. This is why UNDP is actively engaging with businesses and expects this SDG Guidebook to provide very concrete and practical suggestions for listed companies not only to align their operations to the SDGs but also be able to better quantify and account for their contribution to the achievement of the Goals. The impact measurement and management framework introduced by the Guidebook will strengthen the business case for investments aligned to the SDGs and incentivize more companies to contribute to the SDGs.”

For media enquiries, please contact:
Aphinya Siranart
UNDP Thailand
aphinya.siranart@undp.org
----
Download the SDG guidebook
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/251061-undp-and-sec-launch-sdg-guidebook-listed-companies-and-sdg-impact-standards-support-thai




Date: 16 October 2023
Title: Director-General in Thailand: UNIDO to scale up efforts to help achieve the SDGs
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
16 October 2023
BANGKOK - During his mission to Thailand, UNIDO Director-General Gerd Müller explored opportunities to expand support to the country in alignment with the priorities of the newly elected government and with Thailand’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Roadmap.
UNIDO is already a key partner for Thailand in the field of decarbonization and environmental protection, as well as in the field of sustainable urban mobility. The Director General met with Gita Sabharwal, the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, and discussed how UNIDO can scale up its efforts to help the country achieve the SDGs, notably through CO2 capture, promoting green hydrogen, and leveraging technology for agriculture. Müller and Sabharwal agreed that these are core priorities for lowering emissions, enhancing agricultural yields and counter food insecurity.
The Director General also met with Danucha Pichayanan, Secretary General of the Office of the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC), who indicated that UNIDO could help Thai SMEs in transitioning to low-carbon models, as well as to benefit from a carbon trading system. Müller indicated that UNIDO will support the implementation of the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan, addressing issues related to vocational training, decarbonization, economic growth and inequality.
Müller then visited Thailand Science Park, the country’s first science and technology park, established to promote innovation and research and development in the private sector. At the park, the Director General held discussions with Sukit Limpijumnong, President of the National Science and Technology Development Agency (NSTDA), about the long-standing cooperation between the two organizations and about potential collaborations, include battery swapping, biotechnology and South-South Cooperation.
The Director General said, “UNIDO has been working with NSTDA continuously since 2008 on a number projects funded by the Global Environment Facility. And I am proud of the excellent cooperative relationship we have built, as we are partners in a number of flagship projects in Thailand, such as piloting electric vehicles in Rayong city; mainstreaming the production of bioethanol from cassava – a good example of South-South technology transfer among Mekong countries; advancing a cleantech programme for SMEs and start-ups; and on the National Implementation Plan for the inventory of toxic chemicals listed in the Stockholm Convention. These are great examples of what we can do together.”
Müller also experienced first-hand some green technologies developed by NTSDA, such as electric motorbikes, and proposed to further explore regional projects and South-South Cooperation initiatives, so to further mainstream Thai technology.
For more information please contact Jie Zhao at j.zhao@unido.org or Sooksiri Chamsuk at s.chamsuk@unido.org.


United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/249920-director-general-thailand-unido-scale-efforts-help-achieve-sdgs




Date: 17 September 2023
Title: The UN in Thailand and UNSSC debut Thai SDG Micro-Primer at the Sustainability Expo in Bangkok
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
17 September 2023
ㅤ
The United Nations (UN) in Thailand, with the support of the United Nations System Staff College (UNSSC) will debut the “Thai SDG Micro-Primer: My learning journey to contributing to Thailand's sustainable future” at Bangkok's Sustainability Expo 2023.
The SDG microlearning is the UN in Thailand's innovative initiative for today's fast-paced, digital-first learning environment, with the aim of reaching the digital-native youth through a mobile-centric, dynamic format akin to leading digital platforms.
As Thailand's premier platform for sustainable solutions, the Sustainable Expo 2023, boasts collaborations from over 100 international entities and insights from 150 global experts. Mirroring the transformative nature of the SDGs, the Expo exemplifies actionable, tangible pathways towards sustainable living, as evidenced by last year's significant turnout of 100,000 attendees amidst global challenges.
With the SDG Summit taking place this month, the 2030 Agenda's message resonates louder than ever: the SDGs stand as a collective vision for a balanced and prosperous world.
Engaging Youth with Innovation
“Young people are instrumental contributors to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Staff College is pleased to collaborate with the UN in Thailand on the launch of this crucial initiative targeted at Thai youth. Our common objective is to ensure the global ambitions set in the Agenda resonate with all,” says Patrick van Weerelt, Head, UNSSC Knowledge Centre for Sustainable Development.
This interactive learning platform provides Thailand-specific challenges and solutions, merging education with actionable insights. The course is tailored to Thai university students, but professors, development practitioners, civil society organizations, and youth groups can also benefit from the learning. Inspired by contemporary digital platforms, the microlearning initiative delves into the intricate interconnection between SDGs and Thailand's developmental objectives. The primary areas of focus include ocean plastics, air pollution, and education inequality.
UN Resident Coordinator of Thailand, Gita Sabharwal, encapsulated the vision aptly: "The SDGs thrive on partnership. Civil society organizations, youth, communities, businesses, and the financial sector are the mosaic pieces of this global picture. We invite you to delve into this learning journey, understanding the challenges and your unique role in sculpting a sustainable future. Together, we champion the SDGs."
“With the 2030 Agenda at midpoint, it is imperative that we take urgent and accelerated action to put the SDGs back on track. No player, including the United Nations, can accomplish this alone. Young people are pivotal in shaping a sustainable future. UNESCO is proud to support Thailand’s youth in becoming SDG Champions,' says Ms. Soohyun Kim, Director of UNESCO Multisectoral Regional Office in Bangkok. "Together with our UN partners, we are pleased to jointly launch the SDG primer aimed at inspiring young people and mobilizing collective action toward achieving the SDGs"
Other information
For comprehensive details on the Thai SDG Micro-Primer, visit this page: https://bit.ly/thaisdgmicro-primer
The Thai SDG Micro-Primer unveiled on 5 October 2023, at the Sustainability Expo global premiere.
To learn more about sustainable development strategies and initiatives in Thailand, please reach out to the United Nations in Thailand at RCO-TH@un.org.
For tailored microlearning solutions centered on sustainable development, reach out to sustainable-development@unssc.org.
The original press release is published on UNSSC
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/248327-un-thailand-and-unssc-debut-thai-sdg-micro-primer-sustainability-expo-bangkok




Date: 01 September 2023
Title: IOM, Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Promote Evidence-Based Migration Discourse and Media Reporting in Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
01 September 2023
ㅤㅤ
Bangkok (September 1, 2023) – Thailand is the largest regional migration hub within South-East Asia, with more than 3 million registered migrant workers living in the country. Despite the Royal Thai Government’s (RTG) efforts to protect and promote the rights and well-being of migrant workers, they are often the target of stigmatization, sometimes fueled by fear and prejudice.
Recognizing the role media plays in combatting negative stereotypes against migrants, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) launched a two-year joint project for journalists, journalism students and government officials working in the field of communication to foster evidence-based migration discourse and media reporting in Thailand.
“Migration is often at the front and centre in national news and debate globally. Inaccurate facts, half-truths and mischaracterizations can spread fast, negatively impacting public perceptions on migration and impacting individual migrants and their families. Even the most seasoned media professionals are prone to misrepresenting and misreporting on the issue if not properly trained,” said Géraldine Ansart, IOM’s Chief of Mission in Thailand.
Through the roll-out of learning materials and a series of capacity building sessions, the project aims to strengthen traditional and non-traditional media’s competence in conducting quality migration reporting while shedding light on the complexities of migration, including the social and economic opportunities migration provides when properly managed.
The training builds on IOM’s vast experience working with media professionals around the world, in particular through the Global Migration Media Academy (GMMA) which is a media training network with an open-access e-learning platform focusing on inclusive and ethical migration reporting. IOM is currently partnering with universities in six other countries globally, including the National University of Ireland in Galway (NUIG) which hosted the first GMMA Summer School in June 2022.
“These trainings will provide Thai media a space to engage with a number of journalists and academia globally to exchange experiences and best practices on migration reporting,” Ansart added.
IOM will partner with media organizations, civil society and academia in the relevant fields, including journalism, political science, social science and law, to develop a curriculum based on existing research and studies contextualized for Thailand - covering topics ranging from environmental migration to gender-inclusive reporting. IOM will also support workshops organized by Chulalongkorn and Mahidol Universities in September and October, and a public seminar organized by MFA in December this year.
“In today’s digital age of infodemics, policymakers pay attention to the media as influential sources of news and information. Journalists reporting with sensitivity, accurate facts and ethical standards have the power to tell stories that not only shape public narratives but also influence policy discourse,” remarked Kanchana Patarachoke, Director-General of the Department of Information, MFA.
“Through our concentrated efforts with IOM, we hope to reinforce media practitioners’ ability to carry out sensitized reporting that respects the rights of migrants while promoting social cohesion among Thai public and migrant communities.”
The project aims to support the RTG efforts, including as a Champion Country of the Global Compact for Migration (GCM), to advance one of its four pledges “to promote public perception regarding the positive contribution of migrants and to end discrimination and stigmatization against them.”
The joint initiative is financially supported by the IOM Development Fund.

For media enquiries, please contact
Anushma Shrestha
International Orginazation for Migration (IOM)
anshrestha@iom.int
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/251368-iom-ministry-foreign-affairs-promote-evidence-based-migration-discourse-and-media-reporting




Date: 16 August 2023
Title: Enhancing Awareness of Prevention and Response to Sexual Misconduct in the Workplace
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
16 August 2023
On 19 July 2023, the World Health Organization (WHO) Thailand and the Ministry of Public Health's (MoPH) Anti-Corruption Operation Center (ACOC) co-hosted an orientation workshop in Bangkok. The workshop aimed to enhance the understanding of, and response to, workplace misconduct. Approximately 50 participants attended, composed of primarily MOPH officials serving as PRS (Prevention and Response to Sexual Misconduct) focal points across 20 departments, Country Cooperation Strategy (CCS) implementing partners, and officers from the World Vision Foundation of Thailand. Their training revolved around the practical applications of PRS and incorporating Gender Equality, Health Equity, and Human Rights (GER) values.
The workshop opened by addressing the concerns of Sexual Exploitation, Abuse, and Harassment (SEAH), setting a tone of collective responsibility. Participants were introduced to practical strategies for managing these issues. The LIVES strategy—Listen, Inquire, Validate, Enhance Safety and Support—was highlighted as a core approach for tackling such concerns. The initiative underscored the need for transparent staff policies, effective communication, and public awareness in combating these challenges.
Dr. Olivia Nieveras, Medical Officer of WHO Thailand and the Focal Point for PRS, welcomed the participants to the workshop and underscored WHO's stand against sexual misconduct and its ‘zero-tolerance’ policy against SEAH. She reiterated the importance of a safe workspace and laid out WHO's strategic approach: victims and survivors at the heart of our work, prioritize transparency and accountability, and to be a reliable, respected, and active partner.
Ms. Suchada Warinvej, ACOC's Senior Plan and Policy Analyst, presented Thailand's PRS legal and policy frameworks, highlighting MoPH's and ACOC's dedication to effectively addressing workplace sexual misconduct. She noted the Gender Equality Act and MoPH's PRS-inclusive anti-corruption policy, emphasizing collective responsibility. To conclude, participants were invited to sign a Preventing and Responding to Sexual Exploitation, Abuse, and Harassment (PRSEAH) pledge, signalling personal commitment against such misconducts.
Ms. Napapan Der Kinderen, WHO Thailand's PRS Consultant, led a session on responding to SEAH. Addressing societal norms, stigma, and stereotypes, she emphasized the importance of prompt reporting and effective response. The session also introduced participants to role-play exercises to better understand these issues, emphasizing the need for a gender-equitable, rights-based approach to health programming.
Throughout the workshop, discussions underlined the significance of confidential reporting channels, like the hotline 1300, providing victims a secure platform to voice their experiences. This joint initiative between WHO and ACOC underscores the importance of coordinated efforts in promoting a safer, inclusive work environment, free from abuse, exploitation, and harassment. It highlighted the power of collective action, marking a step forward in the pursuit of safe, respectful, and accountable workplaces.
#WHOThailand #ACOC #EndSEAH #SafeWorkplaces #CollectiveAction #GenderEquality #HealthEquity #HumanRights
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/241680-enhancing-awareness-prevention-and-response-sexual-misconduct-workplace




Date: 17 July 2023
Title: Leaders in responsible investment call for more action on climate finance
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
17 July 2023
ㅤ
Thailand’s transition to a low-carbon economy will require greater investments with sustainability impact for which responsible capital markets are best-placed to provide.
To get there, SEC Thailand mobilized global financial leaders to virtually discuss the next steps. They focused on innovative practices to enhance stewardship of financing for long-term, sustainable value, complementary to private sector-led projects underway to reduce carbon emissions and reverse environmental damage.
The webinar ‘Responsible Investment in Practice: Undertaking Stewardship with a Focus on Climate Change’ held on 17th July 2023 was co-organized by the United Nations (UN), the PRI initiative, Asia Investor Group on Climate Change (AIGCC), and SEC Thailand to provide the fundamentals and best practices for effective stewardship to Thai market participants. In addition, it also served as a forum for strategic coordination among leading institutional investors, financial firms, and public sector leaders to further engage on the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) as well as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Mr. Thawatchai Pittayasophon, Deputy Secretary-General, Acting Secretary-General, the Securities and Exchange Commission, Thailand, said: “Climate change is one of the most significant global threats that could affect the financial system. SEC Thailand recognizes the urgency of this global issue and urges all stakeholders in the capital market, particularly asset owners and asset managers, to prioritize positive actions on climate change as they have the decision powers to invest for the transition and finance companies’ emissions reduction to drive change in the real economy. It is therefore utmost important that asset owners and asset managers understand the fundamental concept of ‘climate stewardship’. The on-going dialogue with investee companies is a powerful tool to encourage them to have effective oversight of climate-related risks that may affect the long-term value creation of the investors’ portfolios. We are delighted to partner with the UN, PRI and AIGCC in promoting climate stewardship among Thai capital market participants, and in accelerating Thailand’s progress towards SDGs and net-zero emission by 2065.”
Ms. Gita Sabharwal, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Thailand, added: “Capital markets have a huge influence on the economy and are one of the key drivers of sustainable growth in Thailand. Importantly, green investments are not only beneficial for the environment, but they also impact bottom lines positively in the medium to long term. Equally critical is investment stewardship. The UN comes into this equation by bringing to bear best available technologies and environmental practices combined with integrated policy advice.”
Mr. James Robertson, Head of Asia (ex-China & Japan), PRI, shared: “Following successful collaboration between the PRI, UN, and SEC Thailand in 2021 and 2022, we were delighted to continue this partnership in 2023 – and to welcome AIGCC as a co-organiser – to foster knowledge sharing and capacity building on responsible investment themes for institutional investors and capital market participants in Thailand. The event this year focused on stewardship, and the positive impact this crucial lever for investors can have in mitigating the systemic risk posed by climate change. We hope this session provided a valuable learning opportunity for delegates at all stages of RI adoption and we look forward to further collaborative opportunities with these partners.”
Ms. Valerie Kwan, Director of Engagement, Asia Investor Group on Climate Change (AIGCC), said: “Stewardship models have rapidly evolved over the years, and the role of investors have changed alongside them. The pace of change is only accelerating to meet the urgent needs of decarbonising the global economy. Climate risk is investment risk. Now, much more urgent action is needed to align with a 1.5°C future. We are delighted to participate in the knowledge sharing on climate stewardship and to discuss the various tools and approaches that are available in the investment ecosystem for institutional investors in Thailand to consider. We hope that the Responsible Investment in Practice forum has provided insights on approaches that would be most impactful for the Thai market and we look forward to participating in similar dialogues in the future.”
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/239851-leaders-responsible-investment-call-more-action-climate-finance




Date: 28 June 2023
Title: UNESCO and DASTA renew joint commitment to sustainable tourism and the safeguarding of cultural and natural heritage
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
28 June 2023
Bangkok, Thailand (28 June 2023) – Marking the continuation of their strong and effective collaboration, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the Designated Areas for Sustainable Tourism Administration (DASTA) of Thailand have committed to a second renewal of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that the two organizations first signed in 2014.
In a ceremony held at the UNESCO Multisectoral Regional Office in Bangkok on 28 June, the renewed MoU was signed by Gp. Capt. Athikun Kongmee, Director-General of DASTA, and Mr Feng Jing, Director ad interim and Chief of the Culture Unit at UNESCO Bangkok.
UNESCO and DASTA will continue to collaborate to support sustainable tourism and local development for cultural and natural heritage sites, as well as for Creative Cities and additional tourism destinations in Thailand, primarily through capacity-building and the safeguarding of tangible and intangible heritage at selected pilot sites.
A feature of the renewed cooperation marked by today’s ceremony will be the launch of a UNESCO-DASTA project, funded by the ASEAN-Türkiye Cooperation, titled ‘Achieving Sustainable Tourism with Intangible Cultural Heritage and Creative Cities Network in Waterway Cities of ASEAN’, in August of this year. The special project will primarily benefit Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Thailand.
‘UNESCO is pleased to work more closely with DASTA in these areas, which I believe are important resources for each country’s sustainable development’, said Mr Jing at today’s signing ceremony.
UNESCO and DASTA will also establish effective mechanisms for supporting each other financially in the implementation of relevant projects, and they will jointly identify future areas of cooperation in promoting the Creative Cities Network and other potential initiatives in Thailand.
‘The important addition in this MoU renewal is our collaboration to promote the Creative Cities Network in Thailand more widely’, noted Gp. Capt. Kongmee.
To date, UNESCO has recognized five Creative Cities in Thailand: Bangkok (Design); Chiang Mai (Crafts and Folk Art); Phetchaburi (Gastronomy); Phuket (Gastronomy); and Sukhothai (Crafts and Folk Art).
A public organization under the Ministry of Tourism and Sports of Thailand, DASTA has previously collaborated with and mobilized funding for UNESCO on various projects, including the capacity-building programme for Heritage Specialist Guides in Thailand, the promotion and utilization of the UNESCO Visitor Management Assessment and Strategy Tool (VMAST) in Thailand and other APEC countries, and the co-development of proposals to attract funding from the ASEAN community and through other alliances.
For enquiries, please contact Culture Unit, UNESCO Bangkok: culture.bgk@unesco.or
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/238721-unesco-and-dasta-renew-joint-commitment-sustainable-tourism-and-safeguarding-cultural-and




Date: 14 June 2023
Title: Signing of memorandum of understanding between Secretariat of WHO FCTC, Thammasat and Mahidol universities in Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
14 June 2023
ㅤ
Thammasat University and Mahidol University have entered a new partnership to strengthen the work of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC) Knowledge Hub on Article 5.3.
The partnership, which was sealed today with the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Secretariat of the WHO FCTC and the two Thai universities, will strengthen work on Article 5.3 of the Convention, which requires all Parties act to protect tobacco control policies from the commercial and other vested interests of the tobacco industry.
The WHO FCTC Knowledge Hub on Article 5.3 will continue to be housed at the School of Global Studies at Thammasat University and will provide technical assistance, produce guidance notes and other key publications, develop tools, and act as a clearing house for information on the tactics used by the tobacco industry to influence public health policies, especially those related to tobacco control.
Tobacco control, a global public health issue
The WHO FCTC and its protocols aim to protect present and future generations from the health, social, environmental and economic consequences of tobacco consumption and exposure to tobacco smoke. It provides a framework for the implementation of tobacco control measures by Parties at the national, regional and international levels. The WHO FCTC currently has 182 Parties. Since 2014, the Secretariat of the WHO FCTC has coordinated the establishment of nine knowledge hubs in different regions of the world to support Parties in addressing tobacco control issues.
Since its ratification of the WHO FCTC in 2004, Thailand has been a global leader in tobacco control. In 2017, the WHO FCTC Secretariat and the School of Global Studies at Thammasat University jointly established the WHO FCTC Knowledge Hub on Article 5.3.
Global leadership in monitoring and preventing tobacco industry interference
Today's ceremony confirms the determination of Thammasat University and Mahidol University to work together in updating and strengthening the knowledge base on tobacco industry interference by organizing tailor-made capacity-building events on various issues related to tobacco industry interference. The development of tools, policy recommendations and best practices for the implementation of Article 5.3 of the WHO FCTC is also among the main areas of work of the Knowledge Hub.
In her opening address, Associate Professor Gasinee Witoonchart, Rector of Thammasat University, reminded participants of Thailand's remarkable progress in tobacco control nationally and internally, stressing that the involvement of the higher education sector in the implementation of the WHO FCTC has been instrumental in ensuring such success.
"However, this success is marred by the many obstacles encountered primarily due to the tobacco industry's continued efforts to thwart the development and implementation of our tobacco control policies," Associate Professor Witoonchart said.
Also speaking at the signing ceremony, Professor Banchong Mahaisavariya, President of Mahidol University, affirmed the important role this new partnership will play in providing global leadership through the continuous development and sharing of knowledge on "mechanisms to act as a watchdog against tobacco industry interference” in Thailand and in all 182 Parties to the WHO FCTC.
While commending Thailand for its exemplary role in tobacco control, Dr Adriana Blanco Marquizo, Head of the Secretariat, reminded participants at the signing ceremony that strengthening the network of knowledge hubs to support the Secretariat and Parties in implementing specific technical areas of the Convention – and particularly in implementing Article 5.3 and monitoring tobacco industry activities at the national and international levels – is among the key objectives of the Global Strategy to Accelerate Tobacco Control: Advancing Sustainable Development through Implementation of the WHO FCTC 2019–2025, adopted in 2018.
“I can say with confidence that this Knowledge Hub has done some excellent work over the past six years,” she added.
About the WHO FCTC Knowledge Hub on Article 5.3
WHO FCTC Knowledge Hub for Article 5.3 draws together the academic discipline, diversity and global reach of both the School of Global Studies at Thammasat University and of Mahidol University in countering tobacco industry interference to advance tobacco control measures at the country, regional and global levels.
About the Secretariat of the WHO FCTC
Established in 2007, the Secretariat serves as the secretariat of both the WHO FCTC and of the Protocol to Eliminate Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products. The Secretariat is hosted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in Geneva, Switzerland; however, it has its own distinct mandate, function and governance structure. The Secretariat implements and reports on workplans and budgets adopted by the governing bodies of the two treaties, namely, the Conference of the Parties to the WHO FCTC and the Meeting of the Parties to the Protocol. The functions of the Secretariat are to support the governing and subsidiary bodies of the treaties, to provide assistance to Parties to the WHO FCTC and to Parties to the Protocol, and to promote the two treaties through cooperation with international organizations and bodies, nongovernmental organizations and external stakeholders.
The original press release is published on WHO FCTC.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/236774-signing-memorandum-understanding-between-secretariat-who-fctc-thammasat-and-mahidol




Date: 31 May 2023
Title: The Royal Thai Government, UNHCR and UNICEF join forces to accelerate progress in ending childhood statelessness
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
31 May 2023
ㅤ
Bangkok, Thailand (31 May 2023) – At a seminar hosted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, UNHCR and UNICEF in Bangkok today, officials from the Government, civil society organizations and UN agencies came together to strengthen their efforts to end childhood statelessness in Thailand. The seminar, which falls under UNHCR-UNICEF Joint Strategy for Addressing Childhood Statelessness, aims to review progress made in Thailand while highlighting challenges and identifying solutions and areas for improved collaboration among key actors.
Thailand has made progress in legislation and policy for addressing statelessness during the past decades. Yet, “Resolving childhood statelessness in Thailand remains a work in progress,” said UNHCR Representative, Giuseppe de Vincentiis. “We welcome the RTG's commitment to ending childhood statelessness. UNHCR will continue to support the Government and stakeholders to build on progress made and consider making new pledges to address statelessness at this year's Global Refugee Forum.”
“Every child has a right to a nationality or a legal status,” said Kyungsun Kim, UNICEF Representative for Thailand. “This is a fundamental right and the first gate that enables children to enjoy other basic rights including the right to survival, education, protection and meaningful participation. Without a nationality and or a legal status, it is extremely difficult for a child to live a quality life and secure a bright future.”
The Royal Thai Government has endorsed UNHCR’s #IBelong campaign to end statelessness by 2024 and pledged to provide pathway to obtaining legal status or nationality for stateless persons, including children, and to enhance access to education, social services and protection for them. Since 2015, over 63,000 registered stateless persons have acquired Thai nationality.
Under Thai law, any child born in Thailand can register at birth and obtain a birth certificate as well as attend schools and access to health services even if they don’t have a legal status or any documents.
Eksiri Pintaruji, Director General of Department of International Organizations, Ministry of the Foreign Affairs said: “This milestone event not only provides an opportunity to reflect on the progress made in addressing childhood statelessness, but will help us refine and accelerate our efforts to comprehensively resolve statelessness amongst children in Thailand. The Royal Thai Government is using this opportunity to help redouble efforts, together with the UN agencies and non-governmental organizations, to address childhood statelessness in Thailand.”
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/235857-royal-thai-government-unhcr-and-unicef-join-forces-accelerate-progress-ending-childhood




Date: 25 May 2023
Title: UN Headquarters Observes International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers on 25 May
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
25 May 2023
‏‏‎  ‏‏‎  ‏‏‎  ‏‏‎  ‏‏‎  ‏‏‎ ‏‏‎
Thai peacekeeper among those to be honored posthumously at UN Headquarters ceremony.
UN Headquarters will observe the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers and mark the 75th anniversary of UN Peacekeeping on Thursday, 25 May.
In 1948, the historic decision was made to deploy military observers to the Middle East to supervise the implementation of Israel-Arab Armistice Agreements, in what became the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization.
Since that time, more than two million peacekeepers from 125 countries have since served in 71 operations around the world. Today, 87,000 women and men are serving in 12 conflict zones across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.
Thailand is the 45th largest contributor to UN peace operations with more than 300 military and police personnel deployed in the missions in Abyei, India-Pakistan, Somalia and South Sudan.
During formal ceremonies at United Nations Headquarters, Secretary-General, António Guterres, will lay a wreath to honour the more than 4,200 UN peacekeepers who have lost their lives since 1948. He will also preside over a ceremony in the General Assembly Hall at which Dag Hammarskjöld Medals will be awarded posthumously to 103 military, police, and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their lives serving under the UN flag last year.
Among the peacekeepers to be honoured posthumously with the Dag Hammarskjöld medal is one from Thailand: SM1 Sopa POOSEE who lost his life while serving with the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).
The Secretary-General will also present the 2022 Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award to Captain Cecilia Erzuah, a military officer from Ghana who served with the UN Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA).
Created in 2016, the Award “recognizes the dedication and effort of an individual peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security”.
In his message, the Secretary-General said: “United Nations peacekeepers are the beating heart of our commitment to a more peaceful world. For 75 years, they have supported people and communities rocked by conflict and upheaval across the globe. Today, on the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, we honour their extraordinary contributions to international peace and security.”
Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, said: “Peacekeeping is a powerful example of how strong partnerships and collective political will can result in meaningful change. Working together with local communities and other partners, our personnel protect civilians, advance political solutions, and help end conflicts in the pursuit of sustainable peace. We appreciate the support of all stakeholders to ensure that UN Peacekeeping can continue to work as an effective multilateral tool for global peace and security.”
The International Day of UN Peacekeepers was established by the UN General Assembly in 2002, to pay tribute to all men and women serving in peacekeeping, and to honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace.
For more information, please visit the Peacekeepers Day websites here: https://www.un.org/en/observances/peacekeepers-day; or https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/international-day-of-peacekeepers-2023.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/232892-un-headquarters-observes-international-day-united-nations-peacekeepers-25-may




Date: 27 March 2023
Title: Thailand, UN, EU push forward on South-South and Triangular Cooperation to boost sustainable food and health systems
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
27 March 2023
ㅤ
Bangkok, Thailand (27 March 2023) – The government of Thailand is launching today three United Nations flagship initiatives to accelerate the shift to organic agriculture, as well as improve sexual and reproductive health services, including capacity development in midwifery and of health officials to engage at global health forums.
The announcement by Thailand International Cooperation Agency, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, in collaboration with the European Union, urged a focus on emerging lessons on the green economy, the human capital investments, and the efforts to leave no one behind, as pathways to champion a more inclusive future.
H.E. Ureerat Chareontoh, Director-General of the Thailand International Cooperation Agency, told the gathering on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Forum on Sustainable Development: “South-South and triangular cooperation always lies at the heart of Thailand’s development policy.  Today’s launch of 3 South-South and triangular cooperation projects with the UN Country Team and EU is part of TICA’s contributions to the UN-Thailand Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2022-2026.”
Gita Sabharwal, the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, in turn stressed: “The collaborations between the UN, TICA, line ministries and other development partners allow each of us to leverage our respective strengths towards truly transformative outcomes. Southern-led development initiatives speak to the power of partnerships grounded in mutual benefits.”
Sabharwal commended Thailand’s positioning of Southern-led development initiatives as “an accelerator for the Sustainable Development Goals” – a set 17 global targets on environmental and societal issues – noting that individually, these projects were transforming lives in Thailand.
According to the latest UN report, the Asia-Pacific region has only made 14.4 per cent progress towards achieving the SDGs. Greater cooperation among developing countries, known as the global South, was needed to raise ambition to overcome a multitude of challenges.
H.E. Mr David Daly, Ambassador of the European Union to Thailand, concurred, highlighting the triangular partnership between the European Union, the United Nations and the Royal Thai Government, in support of the Sustainable Development Goals. “The European Union is very pleased to support cooperation between Thailand and other countries in the region with the aim to foster sustainable development, while strengthening ASEAN regional integration, as well as the South-South and Triangular Cooperation initiatives.”
In particular, the EU-funded project “ASEAN Regional Integration Support by the EU” (ARISE), implemented by the UN’s International Trade Centre (ITC) aims to support inclusive and sustainable trade growth in Thailand and greater connectivity and economic integration between Thailand and the ASEAN region. The project is collaborating with TICA and the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, to promote organic agriculture in Thailand and selected ASEAN countries.
The World Health Organization (WHO) and Ministry of Public Health will expand ‘Global Health Diplomacy’ activities jointly with TICA. It aims to support mid-career professionals to actively participate in global health platforms, in knowledge generation and management, and align to the WHO-Thai Government Country Cooperation Strategy, 2022-2026.
The sexual and reproductive health projects, including midwifery capacity development, by UN Population Fund (UNFPA) will advance high-quality education and practices that better prepare midwives and related health personnel to prevent maternal and infant mortality. This initiative will promote more efficient sexual and reproductive health services and meet ICM global standards in ASEAN. This will be carried out with the Ministry of Public Health, select nursing faculties, and TICA.
With its 21 entities in Thailand, the UN country team is implementing three outcomes in green economy, human capital development and ending inequalities, in line with its UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF). As part of its deep dive on South-South and Triangular Cooperation during the design of the Framework, the UN and TICA agreed to partner on flagship initiatives in each of the three outcomes.

For enquiries on the flagship initiatives, please contact:
ARISE Plus Thailand Project
Phongpob Methakullawat
ITC
Pmethakullawat[@]intracen.org

Francesca Gilli
EU Delegation to Thailand
Francesca.Gilli[@]eeas.europa.eu

Global Health Diplomacy​ Project
Dr Jos Vandelaer
WHO Thailand
Vandelaerjo[@]who.int

Sexual and Reproductive Health Projects, including Midwifery Capacity Development
Siriluck Chiengwong
UNFPA Thailand
chiengwong[@]unfpa.org

Thailand International Cooperation Agency
Maes Suwantra
maes.s[@]mfa.go.th
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/224960-thailand-un-eu-push-forward-south-south-and-triangular-cooperation-boost-sustainable-food




Date: 09 March 2023
Title: ‘Whole of society’ approach needed to action on global water agenda
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
09 March 2023
View event photos
BANGKOK, 8 March 2023 – A high-level dialogue held today has cautioned that existing and future challenges in the field of water will require innovative, transformative ideas and a “beyond business as usual” approach if the world is to move faster on its water-related goals and targets, and decouple economic growth from nature’s destruction.

Co-hosted by the Embassy of the Netherlands and United Nations Resident Coordinator in Thailand, the exchange of views brought together local development partners, along with a host of special guests, including the Secretary-General of the Office of National Water Resources (ONWR), UN Environment Programme Deputy Regional Director a.i., and UN ESCAP’s Chief Environment and Development Policy Section. Noting how the world can unite for water action, the participants took stock of game-changing objectives to tackle the multifaceted global water crisis, and urged a focus on better governance of water resources, including increased investment and data availability in water-related services.
“Water is instrumental for mitigation as well as adaptation in tackling the climate crisis, but there is a need to fundamentally understand, value and manage water better, both locally and at a global scale. The water crisis should get the highest level of attention, raise public awareness, galvanize commitments and accelerate actions on water across multiple sectors. What we need is a whole of government, all of society approach. It is now or never,” H.E. Mr. Remco van Wijngaarden, the Ambassador of the Netherlands to Thailand, told the gathering of more than 80 local partners from the diplomatic corps, UN agencies, environmental organizations, and media.
The UN will convene from 22-24 March one of the most important water events in history at its Headquarters in New York, co-hosted by the Netherlands and Tajikistan. The conference, known as the 2023 Conference for the Midterm Comprehensive Review of Implementation of the UN Decade for Action on Water and Sanitation (2018-2028), will coincide with World Water Day on 22 March, which is about accelerating change to solve the water and sanitation crisis this year. Progress towards clean water and sanitation is a means to successfully achieving all of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular on climate change, life on land, good health and well-being, food security, gender equality, equitable education, and industry and innovation.
Ms. Gita Sabharwal, the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, in turn stressed: “As the highest-profile water-related event at the UN in a half century, the Water Conference will be a perfect opportunity to address the global water crisis, with the involvement of politicians, businesses, scientists, and young people.” She went on to underscore Thailand’s voluntary commitments made to date in line with the Water Action Agenda, saying the country has “an important role to play in this within the region.” This includes filling the data gap on SDG 6 targets and capacity development for skilled water professionals to scale up water security.
On behalf of the Thai delegation leader assigned by the Prime Minister to the UN Water 2023 Conference, Dr. Surasri Kidtimonton, Secretary General of the Office of National Water Resources, said, "Thailand recognizes the need to accelerate change to achieve SDG 6 by revising its water master plan, which has been designed to complement the process of cross-sectoral and action-oriented management by shifting from project level analysis to an enabling environment, promoting opportunities for diversifying financial sources, and setting priorities with targeted actions to accelerate towards the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as to address climate change and facilitate resilient infrastructure development based on good governance and participation, and seeking international cooperation and engagement with children and youth to address these issues."
Mr. Bahodur Rahmonov, Deputy Ambassador of Tajikistan, said: “It is obvious that water is a dealmaker for the sustainable development goals, and for the health and prosperity of the people. We don’t need a conference with bold statements, we need a conference with bold commitments.”
During a panel discussion, water experts and representatives including Mr. Pratan Banjongpru, Senior Water Expert from the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), Mr. Yossapon Boonsom, Co-Founder of We!Park, and Ms. Kotchakorn Voraakhom, Co-Founder of Porous City Network, shared their views on ways to take action on the water agenda, turning waste water management challenges into an opportunity, as well as the way forward to leverage water in blue and green urban development.
In response to increasing calls for green urban development and circularity, the Embassy of the Netherlands also showcased its ‘Walk the Talk’ and ‘Thailand-Netherlands Water Dialogue’ initiatives which were part of the ‘Orange Green Days’ series of events launched in September last year to provide a platform for co-creating resilient and livable cities for all, and coinciding with the World Cleanup Day.

For media enquiries, please contact:
Ms. Pantipa Sutdhapanya
Senior Economic Officer, Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Thailand
E-mail: ban-ea@minbuza.nl
Bovornpong Vathanathanakul
Communications Officer, UN Resident Coordinator Office in Thailand
E-mail: bovornpong.vathanathanakul@un.org
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/222335-%E2%80%98whole-society%E2%80%99-approach-needed-action-global-water-agenda




Date: 01 March 2023
Title: EU-UN work together for sustainable development and promotion of human rights in Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
01 March 2023
BANGKOK (March 1, 2023) – The European Union (EU) announces financial support to the UN of over EUR 3.5 million to assist with closing the financing gap for the localisation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Thailand, supporting the promotion and protection of human rights as well as providing protection for Myanmar displaced people along the Thailand-Myanmar border.
H.E. Mr David Daly, Ambassador of the European Union to Thailand said: “The EU is a longstanding partner of Thailand on the promotion and cooperation on issues of mutual interest including sustainable development, human rights, and displaced people. Together with the UN family, our aim is to support the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in the country. With only seven years left until the 2030 deadline, it is crucial for all stakeholders to come together to speed up the implementation to succeed in reaching the targets of each SDG worldwide.”
Commending the opportunities the new collaboration will provide, Ms Gita Sabharwal, UN Resident Coordinator to Thailand said: “The new EU-UN partnership will lay the foundations for even more effective cooperation to achieve the SDGs as we deliver on the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework in Thailand. There is immense opportunity, through the new projects, to benefit millions, promote more concrete actions that improve refugee protection, honour human rights commitments, increase local ownership of the SDGs along with openness and transparency in achieved results, and ensure that no one is left behind.”
In line with the principle to ‘leave no one behind’, the three new multi-year EU-UN projects will contribute to Outcome Three of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF), a roadmap that outlines the work of the UN and is closely aligned to Thailand’s 20-Year National Strategy and the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan (NESDP). The EU-UN partnership becomes even more pertinent as Thailand is recovering from the deep impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, requiring the joint efforts to promote sustainability, human rights and resilience, along with efforts to preserve environmental gains.
In particular, the EU will support the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) co-funded project ‘Strengthening SDGs Localisation in Thailand, 2022-2024’ with nearly EUR 1 million contribution for 18 months. Working with 15 target provinces, the aim is to improve SDG policy dialogue and promote gender-responsiveness with a focus on increasing data availability, raising awareness and building capacity on localising SDGs.
The EUR 1.5 million contributions from the EU to the co-funded project with UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, on ‘Support on Child Protection and Durable Solutions to Refugees in Nine Camps along the Thai-Myanmar Border, 2023-2025,’ will improve the protection and rights of refugee children, and advocate for legal reforms for refugees to gain access to livelihood and education opportunities outside the camps.
The UN Human Rights Office (OHCHR) for South-East Asia will receive EUR 1 million funding from the EU to ‘Strengthen the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights in Thailand, 2023-2024' project, which will advance human rights in Thailand by supporting national efforts to strengthen laws, policies and practices in line with the international human rights norms and standards. Significant steps include promoting engagement with international human rights mechanisms of human rights defenders and civil society organisations, along with improving responsiveness to human rights concerns.
View photo album

Sukuma Uttarak
UNDP
sukuma.uttarak[@]undp.org
View project memo

Morgane Roussel-Hemery
UNHCR
rousselh[@]unhcr.org
View project memo

Wannaporn Samutassadong
OHCHR
wannaporn.samutassadong[@]un.org
View project memo

Bovornpong Vathanathanakul
UNRCO
bovornpong.vathanathanakul[@]un.org

Thanaporn Saleephol
Delegation of the European Union to Thailand
thanaporn.saleephol[@]eeas.europa.eu
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/221081-eu-un-work-together-sustainable-development-and-promotion-human-rights-thailand




Date: 10 February 2023
Title: Business leaders urge re-think of investing choices in sustainability
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
10 February 2023
ㅤ
BANGKOK (9 September 2023) – Trillions of dollars in assets and resources can be unlocked to speed up the transition away from carbon emissions and put the world on a low-carbon pathway, but corporate planners will need to commit themselves to better strategic investment choices, a United Nations-sponsored high-level forum has heard.
The call was made as the United Nations Global Compact launched a regional hub in Bangkok to help businesses across the country redouble their efforts to invest in reducing their environmental and carbon footprints.
The event, titled “CEO Forum on Sustainable Finance: Scaling up Sustainable Finance Solutions for Accelerating Progress on the SDGs,” featured a gathering of officials and experts from government, UN, the private sector and public finance from across Thailand.
The participants highlighted the potential of scientifically robust, realistic, and profitable climate-aligned financing strategies and business models towards decarbonization efforts and the country’s green economy transition in line with its bio-circular-green (BCG) economic model.
Suphachai Chearavanont, chairperson of UN Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT), one of the 69 networks of the UN’s Global Compact initiative, said that interest in corporate sustainability performance has been high among investors and the financial sector in the country.
Climate finance is crucial for corporate strategies, with the latest scientific evidence indicating that over half of the world economy is dependent on nature. Without healthy ecosystems and robust biodiversity, economic growth and well-being of the global population cannot be maintained, Suphachai noted.
“I believe businesses have the responsibility and power to make it happen, to help reduce emissions and adapt to the potential and inevitable impacts of climate change,” he said.
The UN GCNT executive went on to highlight five strategies for accelerating the progress and uptake of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the private sector. These are 1) having clear targets and visibility, 2) leveraging market mechanisms and partners in the value chain, 3) promoting business leadership on sustainability, 4) empowering young emerging leaders to join as changemakers, and 5) creating a culture of innovation.
Sanda Ojiambo, executive director and CEO of the UN Global Compact, in turn stressed that “there is ample capital in the world to provide the US$5 to 7 trillion needed to achieve the global goals,” referring to the SDGs, a set of 17 targets that world leaders established at the UN General Assembly in 2015 and encompass a range of sustainable development goals globally with a focus on environmental and societal issues.
Ojiambo emphasized the urgency for taking action, noting that development achievements made over the past decade are being eroded as a result of the pandemic, armed conflicts, growing economic instability, global food and energy shortages, and rising temperatures.
Stocktaking shows that in Asia, as in the rest of the world, progress on the SDGs has stalled and in some cases has even been reversed, Ojiambo observed. However, even against this backdrop the private sector still has the resources, knowledge and skills needed to make strides in global outcomes, she stressed.
The Asia and Oceania region will be of great importance in driving sustainable development forward as it is home to more than 60 per cent of the world's population while more than two-thirds of the projected global growth is expected to take place in the region.
The potential for leaps in sustainable development is evident and the UN Global Compact is expanding its presence in the region to support businesses in reducing their environmental impacts, Ojiambo said.
Gita Sabharwal, UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, concurred, highlighting the importance of the Bangkok event in driving the region’s sustainable development agenda. “Today’s forum is an opportunity to advance the dialogue on the leadership role of businesses in support of the green transition in country and the region,” Sabharwal said.
“Importantly, we cannot achieve a true transformation without greening the supply chains to boost circularity and reduce their carbon footprints across the board. We at the UN are assisting these efforts by bringing science, introducing the best available technologies, and convening stakeholders,” she went on to explain.
“We are at the midway point to the 2030 Agenda and the leadership of the private sector will remain pivotal in accelerating the achievement of the SDGs in Thailand,” Sabharwal emphasized. “Equally important is the leadership of bankers, investors, and asset managers. They need to take center stage in unlocking domestic financing for sustainable development.”
Ruenvadee Suwanmongkol, secretary-general of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said that the public and private sectors needed to work together for maximum benefit.
“The government plays an important role in driving the financial sector towards sustainability, including by promoting investments in enabling infrastructure and developing green financial products to ensure climate change targets and the SDGs can be achieved quickly,” Ruenvadee said.
“The private sector also plays an important role in managing and evaluating risks arising from climate change and other environmental impacts throughout the business chain,” she continued.
“More funds are allocated to low-carbon projects and more sustainability disclosures are available. This is helping to increase the number of analytical reviews of environmentally friendly financial products,” Ruenvadee said.
Importantly, the introduction of a green taxonomy at the national and regional levels will further increase the credibility of climate-focused financial ecosystem, which  “will be an important force in driving the effective net zero emission reduction (Net Zero Economy), and encourage further investments in green projects,” explained the secretary-general of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The high-level gathering also included a roundtable for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), with chief executives from more than 20 UN GCNT member organizations discussing opportunities and challenges in elevating their sustainability finance and investment strategies.
The business leaders agreed that in the current economic and social climate sustainability must be a part of corporate strategy for every business. In addition to key performance indicators, organizations need to focus on sustainability target indicators (Key Impact Performance), covering their entire supply chain as well as their suppliers, most of which are SMEs.
Common measures include accessing sustainable funding sources, clean technology and knowledge exchanges. The most common indicator relates to the management of greenhouse gas emissions. Consumers are increasingly driven by sustainability-related considerations while the financial sector, banks and investors are increasingly interested in investing in sustainable projects, the business leaders said.
They noted that if the financial sector can work more closely with the business sector, a flow of new capital will result. Past examples of this include the Alliance of Financial Institutions Promoting Energy Transition (Just Energy) or the partnership to support the Net Zero goal by an asset management firm, known as the Climate Asset Management, which aims to become the world's largest asset management firm focused on natural capital and low-carbon projects.
Representatives of SMEs also discussed their role in greening supply chains in order to add long-term value rather than look only for short-term profits. SMEs in Thailand have an extensive supply chain network as they account for 90 per cent of businesses and over half of employment. SMEs in the country have been recognized as important contributors to economic growth, but still need better access to additional capital.
The business leaders noted as an example that if smallholder farmers could access more sources of finance, they could adopt cleaner and more resource-efficient production technologies and increase their knowledge, which will boost productivity while meeting sustainability commitments.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/219005-business-leaders-urge-re-think-investing-choices-sustainability




Date: 14 November 2022
Title: UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety’s South-East Asia tour to advocate for helmets and safe mobility for all
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
14 November 2022



The goal of the mission of the Special Envoy is to advocate for more investment in safe and sustainable mobility in one of the most affected regions in the world: South-East Asia. Starting the tour with Thailand, the Special Envoy will also visit Viet Nam and Cambodia to meet Government Ministers and partners to ensure the effective implementation of the new Global Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2021-2030 with the perspective of halving the number of victims on the road by 2030.
With 1.3 million people killed on the road every year worldwide, road crashes rank as the first cause of death in young people aged 5 to 29, while more than 90% of road fatalities occur in low- and middle-income countries. Road crashes are the leading cause of the fatalities and injuries in South-East Asia. According to WHO (2018), Thailand and Viet Nam are the most vulnerable countries in the region with a fatality rate of 32.2 and 26.4 per 100,000 population while in the European Union, the fatality rate is 5.4 per 100,000 population. 58 per cent of the global road deaths occurred in the Asia-Pacific region.
Road traffic death figures in the ESCAP region in 2019 showed an 11 per cent decrease from 2016.  Despite this progress, efforts still need to be made in the region, combining policy, enforcement and education targeting the most vulnerable on the roads. In this regard, the Transport Ministers of the Asia-Pacific region adopted the five-year high-level strategic direction for the region through the Regional Action Programme for Sustainable Transport Development for Asia and the Pacific (2022-2026) in which road safety has been identified and highlighted as one of the key thematic areas.
Road death and serious injuries cost economies $1.7 trillion dollars per year, and from 3% to 5 percent of GDP. In Vietnam, it represents 2.9% of GDP, while it costs 1.7% of Cambodia’s GDP.  A 2017 study by the World Bank (2017),  reports that if Thailand cuts road traffic mortality rates by 50% over a period of 24 years, it could generate additional income equivalent to 22.2% of GDP.  Furthermore, the majority of the victims are from families with a disadvantaged background. "In addition to the tragic loss of loved ones, road crashes draw the most vulnerable into a vicious cycle of poverty, from medical costs, material damage, loss of the economic capacity and mobilization of resources", highlights the UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety, Mr. Jean Todt
The Special Envoy will start his mission in Bangkok on 20-23 November to speak at the opening of International Transport Forum (ITF) and at the High-level roundtable: Achieving transport-related Sustainable Development Goals through sustainable, inclusive and resilient transport development in the region at the 7th Session of the Committee on Transport organized by the Transport Division of ESCAP. Despite the efforts, Thailand has still one of the 10 highest road traffic fatality rates in the world (WHO 2018). It also has the highest rate of motorcycle-related deaths in the world: the equivalent of 60 deaths a day. According to the World Bank, the situation is particularly alarming in South-East Asia, where motorized two-wheelers account for up to 70% of total vehicles with motorization rate per population far exceeding that of cars.  Motorized two-wheelers are also 30 times more at risk than cars on the road and represent 40 % of crash fatalities in the region. Wearing a certified quality helmet reduces the risk of fatality by 42% and injuries by 69%.
The ESCAP event will be also the occasion to organize a Side event: Sustainable Mobility for Asia and the Pacific #RoadSafetyMatters, where an exhibition will be launched to highlight projects funded by the UNRSF and implemented by UNESCAP and partners in the Region. The exhibition will also demonstrate how The Global Plan of Action can be implemented at the regional level through the Regional Plan of Action for Asia and the Pacific for the Second Decade of Action for Road Safety 2021–2030 and how investment in road safety will contribute to achieve the global agenda and the impact on SDGs such as access to safe and sustainable transport to all, health, mitigating climate change, access to education, jobs or gender equity.
In Phnom Penh, the Special Envoy will meet Government Ministers and will close the Achievement Dissemination Workshop on an  Eco-Safe Driver Training Program, organized on the 24 November by the non-profit AIP Foundation, supported by GIZ and VF Corporation.
The Special Envoy will close his South-East Asia Tour with a visit to Hanoi on 28 November where he will meet high-level Government representatives and will visit a school engaged on road safety working on speed reduction in school zones. Lastly, the Special Envoy will visit the Protec Tropical Helmet Factory in Vinh Phuc Province, which produces UN-ECE 22.05 standard helmets using latest technology.
---------------------
Media Contact:
Secretariat of the UN Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Road Safety:
Priti Gautam priti.gautam@un.org
Stephanie Schumacher stephanie.schumacher@un.org
-----------------
Notes to Editors:
The United Nations has invested significantly in tackling the problem of road safety globally. Following the “Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020”, the UN General Assembly in August 2020 adopted a resolution on “Improving Road Safety”, that reconfirmed its commitment to halving the number of global traffic deaths and injuries and to providing access to safe, affordable, accessible, and sustainable transport systems for all by 2030. In July 2022, the road safety community met in New York City for the first ever High-Level Meeting on Improving Global Road Safety at the United Nations General Assembly, unanimously adopting a text titled: “Political declaration of the high-level meeting on improving global road safety”.
To galvanize intersectoral actions and raise the visibility of road safety, the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, appointed in 2015 Jean Todt as his Special Envoy for Road Safety. He was reconfirmed in this role by the new UN Secretary-General, António Guterres in 2017 and in 2021. In 2018, together with 14 UN organizations, the Special Envoy launched the UN Road Safety Fund (UNRSF).
The Special Envoy recently launched a new campaign to raise awareness about road safety #streetsforlife, in collaboration with JC Decaux, launched during the High-level Meeting for Road Safety and to be implemented  in 80 countries by the end of 2024.
UNECE acts as the secretariat for the Special Envoy for Road Safety. UNECE is the custodian of the United Nations road safety legal instruments applicable worldwide, such as the Convention on Road Traffic, the Convention on Road Signs and Signals, and the 1958, 1997 and 1998 Vehicle Regulations Agreements.  UNECE services the ECOSOC Committee of Experts on Transport of Dangerous Goods, as well as the only permanent United Nations intergovernmental forum on road safety (Working Party on Road Traffic Safety) and the World Forum for Harmonization of Vehicle Regulations, both in the framework of the Inland Transport Committee, which is the only permanent UN forum specialized in inland modes of transport.
Sources- 2018 WHO Global Status Report on Road Safety
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/208279-un-secretary-general%E2%80%99s-special-envoy-road-safety%E2%80%99s-south-east-asia-tour-advocate-helmets-and




Date: 10 November 2022
Title: Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE)  launched in Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
10 November 2022
View event photos
Bangkok, Thailand – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow presided over the opening ceremony of the Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE) in Thailand, which was hosted today by the Office of the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO).
The launch has marked an important step in accelerating partnerships and investments towards the green economy and green recovery policies in Thailand. A focus of the event was to take stock of progress made so far on the Inclusive Green Economy (IGE), Green Recovery Learning Needs Assessment, and Green Recovery Assessment of projects under the rehabilitation fund.
The event brought together stakeholders and more than 300 participants (both in person and online), including policymakers, researchers, investors, and other key actors from the government, private sector, academia, think-tanks, social organizations, press and media.
During his opening remarks, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong stressed that the government was pleased to be part of the Partnership for Action on Green Economy, a global program by the United Nations.
The government’s mission is to improve the economic and social wellbeing of people and the quality of the environment in Thailand, Supattanapong said. The focus of government policies also lies on strengthening the country’s capacity to be adaptive and resilient in a post-pandemic world of economic, environmental and technological disruptions.
This mission is clearly laid out in the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan, undertaken by NESDC. One of the key expected outcomes, which aligns with support from PAGE, involves progress on sustainable development and climate action, the minister noted.
Thailand has decided to embark on its Bio-Circular-Green Economy Model (BCG) in alignment with the 13th national plan so as to enhance the resource efficiency of natural assets, capitalize on the country’s strengths in biological diversity and cultural richness, and employ technology and innovation towards a value-based and innovation-driven economy, according to Supattanapong.
The model has been inspired by the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy (SEP), the key pillar of Thailand’s social and economic development which is aligned with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The launch also acted as a networking platform for future collaborations among stakeholders around policies and investments in the green economy and green recovery with the aim of strengthening partnerships for synergistic actions towards an integrated green economy based on the SDGs.
During a press debriefing Dr. Wichayayuth Boonchit, Chairman of the PAGE Thailand National Steering Committee on PAGE and the Deputy Secretary of NESDC, highlighted the role of NESDC as the core agency coordinating PAGE program implementation in collaboration with other governmental organizations, the private sector, and participating social organizations.
These include the Department of Alternative Energy Development and Efficiency (DEDE), Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP), Department of Agriculture (DOA), Digital Economy Promotion Agency (DEPA), Thailand Development Research Institute (TDRI), Federation of Thai Industries (FTI), and Kenan Foundation Asia.
PAGE Thailand is targeting the implementation of the inclusive green economy in five key areas: 1) reduction of carbon emissions and pollution; 2) energy and resource efficiency promotion; 3) biodiversity and ecosystem conservation; 4) decent job creation; and 5) a just transition to equality and prosperity for all. These areas of action are aimed at overcoming the challenges of poverty, social inequality and environmental degradation while generating sustainable economic growth in line with environmentally-friendly and socially just principles.
To effectively conduct the implementation of PAGE in Thailand, NESDC as the leading coordinating government agency for this collaborative partnership has appointed the PAGE Thailand National Steering Committee to oversee the first-year work plan, which consists of four primary activities.
The first aims to construct a Carbon Emission Trading Scheme, or ETS, to act as a mandatory carbon cap and trade for major carbon emitters.The second seeks to facilitate sustainable waste management with proper financing mechanisms.The third involves capacity-building for the green economy through training in economic circularity in the agricultural and other key sectors. And the fourth entails raising awareness through public outreach campaigns, advocacy, and dialogues with local and national partners.
PAGE partners are inviting all key actors to join this national drive synergistically towards an inclusive green economy that pursues sustainability, equality and resource efficiency for the sake of future generations.
Sooksiri Chamsuk, Deputy Representative of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), said UNIDO is the lead coordinating agency for PAGE in Thailand tasked with coordinating technical support and sharing international experience from the other four UN agencies : the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), International Labour Organization (ILO), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and United Nations Institute for Training and Research(UNITAR).
PAGE now has 22 participating countries worldwide. Thailand officially joined PAGE as the 20th country in 2019 and started its inception phase in March 2020 before the COVID-19 pandemic. PAGE is moving towards a three-year implementation phasewith a supporting budget of US$1 million in Thailand.
At the launch, PAGE Thailand shared outputs from assessments regarding overviews of the green economy and green recovery learning needs as well as details of ongoing progress on a green recovery project under the government’s rehabilitation funds.
“On behalf of the five participating UN partners we are very pleased to be working together with Thailand,” said Sooksiri.
“Thanks to all the collaborations with stakeholders that are joining forces to put green economic policies and practices into action, we are creating a low-carbon society, improving resource efficiency, promoting clean production technologies and inspiring green consumption trends that will contribute to sustainable and long-term economic, social and environmental development,” she said.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/206883-partnership-action-green-economy-page-launched-thailand




Date: 09 November 2022
Title: Statement of Commitment by Global Compact Network Thailand members
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
09 November 2022
ㅤ
Recognizing the key role that biodiversity and ecosystem services play in sustainable business operations, the members of the Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT) will accelerate taking concrete actions in collaboration with all stakeholders to protect and restore natural resources and biodiversity; reduce and offset greenhouse gas emissions; and promote nature-based solutions to mitigate the impacts of climate crisis and increase biodiversity.
We, members of the GCNT, declare our commitment to manage our businesses, establish policies, and use biodiversity resources, in a sustainable and just manner throughout the entire supply chain. We will put in place a biodiversity value monitoring system and engage communities and stakeholders from all sectors through financial support, science-based management, and international cooperation to help Thailand achieve its goal of protecting at least 30% of land and marine areas by 2030.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/206495-statement-commitment-global-compact-network-thailand-members




Date: 08 November 2022
Title: Thailand receives its first Globally Important Agricultural Heritage System recognition
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
08 November 2022
Thailand and China among five new GIAHS sites announced as the FAO flagship programme celebrates 20th anniversary
04/11/2022 Bangkok/Rome – Five new sites - a mushroom-growing area in China, a traditional Maya agroforestry system in Mexico, an ancient community linking pastoralists and farmers in Morocco, a diverse mountain agrifood system in Spain and a landscape centred on the buffalo in Thailand - have been formally recognized as Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems (GIAHS).
The sites were designated during a meeting of the GIAHS Scientific Advisory Group taking place in Rome this week (2-4 November), just days after the flagship programme of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) marked its 20th anniversary. The selection criteria stipulate that sites must be of global importance, have value as a public good, supporting food and livelihood security, agro-biodiversity, knowledge systems, social values and culture as well as outstanding landscapes.
With the latest additions to the global agricultural heritage systems list. FAO's worldwide agricultural heritage network now consists of 72 systems in 23 countries around the globe. The first site to be recognized in Thailand marks the addition of a new country to the list.
Thailand – Landscape shared by humans and buffaloes
The Thale Noi Wetland Buffalo Pastoral Agro-Eco-System in southern Thailand is a diversified farming system marked by longstanding interaction between humans and buffaloes. Over the centuries, pastoralism has shaped and conserved the biodiversity and landscapes while buffaloes adapted to survive in this environment where the land is flooded for almost five months during the year. The system involves a range of mutually supportive practices such as animal herding, fishing, water plant cultivation, harvesting of non-timber forest products and tourism. These provide the foundations for local food and livelihood security, biodiversity conservation, and solidarity among local communities.
The Buffaloes, which have a special place in Thai culture, are herded either free-range or using pens where animals are sheltered at night. During the monsoon season, buffaloes are kept in sheds, typically built 1.5 m above ground. Herders lead their animals out to the grazing areas through the flooded fields and bring them back before nightfall. Buffalo husbandry in Thale Noi is characterized by sharing and communal management. The pastoralists also rely on a strong base of expertise in fishing techniques using traditional equipment to boost their food security during the monsoon season, while during the dry season they turn their hands to farming.
See Thailand GIAHS photos here.
China – Ancient forest-mushroom co-culture system
Located in the high mountains of eastern China’s Zhejiang province, the Qingyuan Forest-Mushroom Co-culture System (QFMCS) is based on mushroom cultivation going back thousands of years. It is an agroforestry system which focuses on the cyclic use of resources, including a unique forest and mushroom co-culture technique. The forests provide a growing environment and nutrients for edible fungi, which accelerate the decomposition of organic matter in the forests. The decomposition of dead wood in turn increases the nutrients in the forests.
According to government statistics, local farmers derive nearly half their income from mushrooms and the various other products of the QFMCS, making it an important livelihood source. It is also a key fungal resource bank for China, hosting nearly 400 identified species of macro fungi. The mushroom farmers, or Gumin, have lived in mountain forests for generations, creating a unique language, customs and social organizations focusing on cooperation and mutual assistance.
See the new China GIAHS photos here.
Other new GIAHS sites globally
Mexico’s Peninsular Maya milpa is a traditional agroforestry system, based on polyculture that makes for a dynamic living space full of genetic resources. It relies on the sustainable use of biodiversity, with a triad of crops - maize, beans and squash - which are in some places supplemented by Lima beans. Since the system depends on the forest, its conservation has been indispensable and reflects one of the core elements of this GIAHS based on forest-friendly practices and anchored in the local communities’ identity. This has contributed to its ability to provide food and livelihoods for people in the Yucatan Peninsula for at least 3,500 years.
Diversity of activities associated with the Maya Milpa also includes means of livelihood such as hunting, gathering firewood, charcoal or construction materials, gardening, livestock breeding and medicinal plants. Today, diversification through beekeeping, agrotourism and gastronomy are also being explored to tackle the rural exodus by offering opportunities for younger generations.
Historic oasis system linking pastoralists and farmers
The GIAHS of Figuig in eastern Morocco, linking the municipality of Figuig and neighbouring AbbouLakhal, is remarkable for the way in which it knits together pastoralist and farming communities. AbbouLakhal hosts extensive grazing lands on which nomadic communities have been practicing pastoralism for centuries. These populations have always traded with Figuig farmers who developed smart cities, called Ksour and based on water springs. This system hosts a wide range of agrobiodiversity including local sheep breeds and endemic date palm varieties that sustain farmers’ and herders’ livelihoods. Trade and agreements between the two communities have allowed them to balance and absorb the variation of yields and forage availability in order to best sustain their livelihoods.
The oasis gardens and water resources have been sustainability maintained and distributed among communities through collective management based on customary rights. The GIAHS of Figuig has long been considered as one of the most impressive oases in the country, where local traditions have survived colonization and ensured the survival of communities in the middle of the desert since the days of trans-Saharan trade, when it was a key staging post.
Diverse and multipurpose mountain agrifood system
The Mountains of León multipurpose agrifood system in northwestern Spain has for centuries contributed directly to the food security and the livelihood of local communities. The area hosts a remarkable diversity of land uses with forests (chestnut groves, beech forests, birches, junipers, oak groves), pastures and areas under cultivation. This allows the coexistence of agriculture, livestock, forestry, gathering, hunting and fishing in the same space, giving the area great agroecological value.
Amid the uniqueness of the Mountains of León, the ability of its inhabitants to domesticate, maintain and adapt agricultural biodiversity has resulted in the conservation and safeguarding of unique native species such as Brown and Indian Rooster of Leon, which needs a very specific environment for breeding; the Mantequera Leonesa bovine species, prized for its dairy products and the distinctive Hispano-Bretón horse. The beauty and recognition also provided by the seven Biosphere Reserves that coexist here in direct harmony with the agricultural systems makes for a combination of attributes hard to find elsewhere in the world.
Learn more:
Website: Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems (GIAHS)
Website: GIAHS 20th anniversary celebrations
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/206395-thailand-receives-its-first-globally-important-agricultural-heritage-system-recognition




Date: 07 November 2022
Title: UN Women Thailand launches WE RISE Together programme and announces winners for Women’s Empowerment Principles awards
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
07 November 2022
ㅤ
Bangkok, Thailand — The six winners have been announced in the 2022 edition of the Thailand Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Awards, which recognizes outstanding initiatives and practices that promote gender inclusivity in the business sector.
The winning companies and individuals in their respective categories are as follows:
The winners of the 2022 awards were announced today in Bangkok. The final selection was made by a panel of seven high-calibre judges assembled from across disciplines such as women entrepreneurs, government, social development, business and the academia. The selected winners were decided by the external panel, independent of UN Women. The laureates now go on to contest the Regional Asia-Pacific WEPs Awards set to be held on 23 November.
The WEPs Awards were initiated through the EU-funded WeEmpowerAsia programme. While the programme itself came to a close earlier this year, Sara Rezoagli, Chargée d’Affaires, a.i., the Delegation of the European Union to Thailand, underlined the value and importance of these awards, especially considering the urgent need to recognize and advance a gender inclusive business culture as a way to strengthen sustainable economic growth in the Asia-Pacific region and beyond.
“We have witnessed an encouraging rise in companies to promote gender equality within and beyond their businesses. We now have over a hundred WEPs signatories in Thailand and could not have achieved this milestone without the support and action of our local partners. Both, the government, and business organizations, promoted the principles and made the WEPs movement grow and the Awards possible over the years,” said Sarah Knibbs, Regional Director, a.i. of UN Women in Asia and the Pacific.
The WEPs consist of seven guiding principles to assist businesses in promoting gender equality in leadership, the workplace, the marketplace and the community.
As a growing number of Thai companies are taking leaps toward gender-inclusive businesses, the winners were among approximately 60 applicants, including representatives of the tech and investment sectors, from social-impact businesses to small and medium-sized enterprises.
This year, UN Women held the awards with support from the Australian Government, the International Federation of Business and Professional Women, the Federation of Thai Capital Market Organization, the Global Compact Network Thailand, the Thai Federation SME Association, and the Thai E-Commerce Association.
To recognise the support of the Thai government in recent years, WEPs Exemplary Ally Recognition tokens were offered to Ruenvadee Suwanmongkol, Secretary-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Wimonkan Kosumas, Deputy Director-General of the Office of SME Promotion, for their strong leadership and continued commitment to the WEPs.
The event took place in the context of the WE RISE Together programme, a partnership between UN Women and Australia to strengthen supplier diversity and create equal market opportunities for women in Thailand. Dr. Angela Macdonald PSM, Australian Ambassador to Thailand launched WE RISE Together at the event
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/207282-un-women-thailand-launches-we-rise-together-programme-and-announces-winners-women%E2%80%99s




Date: 31 October 2022
Title: UN Human Rights Office welcomes Thailand’s enactment of the Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearances Act
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
31 October 2022
ㅤ
BANGKOK (31 October 2022) – The UN Human Rights Office for South-East Asia (OHCHR) welcomes the enactment by Thailand of the Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act, 2022.
The promulgation of this law is a critical milestone in combating torture, ill-treatment and enforced disappearances in Thailand. It includes provisions that will hold perpetrators to account under criminal law and incorporates key principles of non-derogation and non-refoulement, prohibiting officials from expelling, deporting and extraditing a person to another country where they may face substantial risks of torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or enforced disappearance.
The Act will come into force 120 days after its publication in the Royal Gazette on 25 October 2022.
“The enactment of the Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act 2022 is a major step in fulfilling Thailand’s commitments to achieving zero tolerance for acts of torture and enforced disappearances, as well as providing justice to the victims of torture and enforced disappearances,” said Cynthia Veliko, Regional Representative of OHCHR Regional Office for South-East Asia.
“With this Act, victims and families of torture and involuntary and enforced disappearances will have a new framework to seek legal redress, and to hold perpetrators of such heinous crimes to account,” said Ms. Veliko.
Thailand has 76 outstanding cases of enforced disappearances with the United Nations Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances that remain unresolved.
Ms. Veliko highlighted three provisions that should still be amended to ensure full compliance with international human rights laws and standards. These include the application of amnesty for offences proscribed under the Act, the admissibility of evidence obtained through torture in criminal proceedings, and the imposition of a statute of limitations for cases of enforced disappearances.
“OHCHR commends Thailand for fulfilling commitments made during its last Universal Periodic Review (UPR) by the enactment of this law. With this domestic legal framework now in place, Thailand can move ahead with ratifying the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance as well as the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment” said Ms. Veliko. “The OHCHR Regional Office is available to provide any technical support that the Government may require”.
ENDS
For more information and media requests, please contact:  in Bangkok, Wannaporn Samutassadong (+66 65 986 0810 / wannaporn.samutassadong@un.org).
Tag and share – Twitter: @OHCHRAsia, Facebook: @OHCHRAsia and Instagram @ohchr_asia
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/205302-un-human-rights-office-welcomes-thailand%E2%80%99s-enactment-prevention-and-suppression-torture-and




Date: 21 October 2022
Title: “Biodiversity is capital.” UN-GCNT to join forces with private sector at GCNT Forum 2022 this November
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
21 October 2022
ㅤ
The United Nations and Global Compact Network in Thailand (GCNT) have identified biodiversity as an existential crisis that, along with climate change, is threatening the resource base of the global economy, according to experts at a high-level webinar held earlier this month.
This November, more than 100 GCNT members will join forces to advance ecological restoration and sustainable economic growth at the GCNT Forum 2022, they added. The threat will also be a key topic for discussions at COP27 in Egypt next month and COP15 in Canada in December.
In her opening speech at the Investment in Nature and Biodiversity Webinar, Gita Sabharwal, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Thailand, stressed that biodiversity loss is one of the three ongoing planetary crises, along with climate change and pollution. This environmental emergency requires urgent nature-based solutions worldwide, Sabharwal noted.
The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) estimates that over half of the world’s GDP is dependent on natural resources, but biodiversity is facing serious threats from deforestation to habitat loss and from climate change to overfishing.
However, every dollar invested in ecological restoration can generate an economic profit of up to $30, based on UNEP estimates. In other words, green investments can generate economic returns with a value of up to 30 times that of the initial investment.
At the webinar, Dr. Netithorn Praditsarn, Deputy Secretary-General of Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT), observed that more and more businesses are starting to realize the importance of ecosystems as a natural capital essential to livelihoods and the global economy.
Food security, Netithorn explained, is one of the pressing issues that clearly highlight the central role of biodiversity in the economy and people’s livelihoods.
Biodiversity worldwide has been in marked decline for decades and Southeast Asia has been particularly affected.
In its latest assessment of global ecosystems, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has pinpointed the alarming rate of the decline. The numbers of mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish plummeted by 68 per cent, or more than two-thirds, from 1970 to 2016 in the Asia-Pacific region.
As a result, the need to preserve and restore biodiversity and protect natural resources is a vital undertaking not only for conservationist groups but also for all businesses and other stakeholders who will need to redouble their efforts to save ecosystems, the experts at the webinar said.
“GCNT, as the local network of the UN Global Compact, is committed to expanding cooperation with partner organizations and to implementing development projects that empower the business sector. The GCNT Forum 2022 in November will feature seminars on biodiversity management,” Netithon said.
The webinar brought together experts from various government agencies, the private sector and civil society who shared their insights.
The speakers included Dr. Theresa Mundita S. Lim from ASEAN Center for Biodiversity, Dr. Balakrishna Pisupati from UNEP Law Division, Dr. Pattrin Thongsima from the Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP), Dr. Petch Manoprawit from the National Ecosystem Assessment (NEA), Mrs. Susama Pitakuldilok from PTT Exploration and Production PCL. (PTTEP), and Ms. Pitchanok Luanguthai from Mae Fah Luang Foundation.
All participants underlined the importance of biodiversity, pointing out that Southeast Asia is one of the regions with the richest biodiversity but also with the greatest vulnerabilities and threats. All sectors in society must be equipped with a whole-system sustainable management approach, supported by the latest data, in-depth knowledge, adequate financial resources, the best available technological tools and innovation.
Thailand ranks the 20th among countries globally in terms of the rate of biodiversity, but as many as 470 species around the country are facing the threat of extinction in the wild.
According to the Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP), many coastal areas and marine ecosystems have been under threat. Thailand has over 3,151 kilometers of coastline, yet illegal fishing is a constant threat to marine ecosystems and beaches.
Based on the latest estimate, Thailand also needs to increase its forest cover significantly from the current 31.68 percent with the country’s northern region especially in urgent need of rehabilitation.
The agricultural sector depends greatly on healthy forests and robust biodiversity. All stakeholders need to take action now, the speakers emphasized.
Encouragingly, Thailand’s National Ecosystem Assessment (NEA) offers world-class conservation techniques and a robust knowledge base on biodiversity to decision-makers. It is building engagement through an educational platform on the importance of biodiversity and nature-based solutions such as the Blue Carbon Initiative, which focuses on marine and coastal ecosystems.
Thailand will benefit greatly from conservation efforts that can boost sustainable tourism and improve climate change mitigation. It is urgent to mobilize resources, particularly responsible investments, the experts said.
Although the private sector is highly engaged on the issue, many ongoing projects are not supported with sufficient knowledge and so unable to utilize the resources efficiently. With the combination of academic and community knowledge, development efforts can be optimized, they added.
Representatives of PTT Exploration and Production (PTTEP), a prominent company, and the Mae Fah Luang Foundation, a leading nonprofit, shared their views and experiences about ongoing biodiversity-related projects.
PTTEP has included energy transition as part of its corporate strategy to achieve the goal of net zero and mitigate biodiversity impacts. The company has a clear goal of creating a Net Positive Impact on biodiversity and ecological services by 2030 by improving the Ocean Health Index through the 3 Cleans Approach – Clean 1: clean & ocean-friendly operation, Clean 2: ocean health & biodiversity monitoring, Clean 3: concrete restoration and conservation of marine environment.
The public and researchers will be able to access all these data, the company said.
The Mae Fah Luang Foundation is operating on the guiding principle of “When Forests Grow, People Thrive” and is helping forest-dwelling communities generate income by selling carbon credits from the forest sector. A pilot project is taking place in Doi Tung, which spans over 10,880 hectares, where carbon credits are expected to be equivalent to 106,788 tons of CO2.
The knowledge gained from this project will be disseminated to forest communities across the country under the project “Save Forests, Save People,” which relies on cooperation from all sectors, including the government, the private sector and communities.
At the end of the webinar, Ms. Thanyaporn Krichtitayawuth, Director of Global Compact Network Thailand, stressed the importance of keeping an eye on developments at the upcoming Conference of the Parties of the UNFCCC, or COP 27 in Egypt, this November, and emphasized how the economy would benefit from urgent and serious climate action.
From 7-19 December, the 15th Conference of the Parties to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD COP 15) will take place in Montreal, where leaders of influential countries will declare their latest environmental commitments.
Thailand has begun campaigning to raise public awareness of the importance of biodiversity and to promote the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources.
It is expected that the Convention on Biological Diversity will be enforced soon, requiring Thai businesses to scale up their green operations and contribute to the national ambition to alleviate problems arising from climate change and biodiversity loss.
GCNT members will hold workshops to strengthen the partnership of the private sector and propose green solutions at the “GCNT Forum 2022” this November.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/204076-%E2%80%9Cbiodiversity-capital%E2%80%9D-un-gcnt-join-forces-private-sector-gcnt-forum-2022-november




Date: 06 October 2022
Title: Secretary-General Shocked, Saddened by Horrific Deadly Mass Shooting in Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
06 October 2022
The following statement was issued today by the Spokesman for UN Secretary-General António Guterres:
The Secretary-General is shocked and saddened by the horrific mass shooting today at a child-care facility in north-eastern Thailand, in which dozens of people were killed, most of them children.
The Secretary-General extends his condolences to the families of the victims and wishes those injured a speedy recovery.
Watch the Spokesperson's noon briefing announcement: https://youtu.be/_Hifhr3oaow?t=42
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/202349-secretary-general-shocked-saddened-horrific-deadly-mass-shooting-thailand




Date: 10 December 2021
Title: FAO in Asia-Pacific calls for improvements to early warning systems as concerns grow over evolving avian influenza and potential threat to humans
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
10 December 2021
‏‏‎  ‏‏‎  ‏‏‎  ‏‏‎  ‏‏‎  ‏‏‎ ‏‏‎
Bangkok – Cases of avian influenza are rising globally, with 272 additional events of outbreaks in birds recorded worldwide by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in little more than a month.
The FAO data records the increase since 27 October 2021. Increased avian influenza activity has been seen in the Asia-Pacific region, but also in Africa and Europe during the past year and it is suspected that wild birds may play a role in spreading the virus globally.
In addition, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), influenza A(H5N6) has caused 52 human infections in the Asia-Pacific region since 2014, half of which have occurred in 2021, and mostly in people with close contact with poultry prior to infection.
“Avian influenza viruses are constantly evolving, and we must be vigilant to detact new subtypes of the virus that could devastate poultry production systems in the region or infect humans, which can lead to a pandemic,” said FAO Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal Diseases (ECTAD) Regional Manager Kachen Wongsathapornchai.
“There is an urgent need to better share information on what strains of influenza circulate in Asia and ensure countries take the necessary steps to protect the public health and the livelihoods of their communities.” he added.
In response to this situation, FAO ECTAD has been consulting with more than 40 experts on avian influenza viruses to discuss what can be done to improve avian influenza surveillance and early warning systems in the Asia-Pacific region.
The ideal early warning system: better data drive smarter decisions
During the consultations, FAO and various experts emphasized the importance of information sharing to improve early warning, prevent the virus’ spread and minimize the global impacts of avian influenza. “Better data would have helped countries and the international community determine preparedness and response more quickly and confidently,” said Filip Claes, FAO ECTAD Regional Laboratory Coordinator.
In particular, FAO and experts encourage countries to:
The way forward – a call for collective action
The current ongoing and evolving avian influenza situation is an opportunity to recognize and address the national and global efforts to tackle the virus. FAO and experts are calling for collective action to share relevant avian influenza information with the international and scientific communities, and create a true international early warning network that can benefit countries’ preparedness efforts.
FAO provides early warning information on zoonotic and animal disease outbreaks, such as H5Nx avian influenza. Member countries can share their disease information on the EMPRES-i platform, and avian influenza sequences with the OIE/FAO Network of Expertise on Animal Influenza (OFFLU).
For media inquiries please contact Allan Dow at allan.dow[a]fao.org and Rindu Putri at rindu.putri[a]fao.org
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/164551-fao-asia-pacific-calls-improvements-early-warning-systems-concerns-grow-over-evolving-avian




Date: 02 December 2021
Title: UNOPS Lives in Dignity call for proposals opens with EUR 12 million available for displacement aid projects in Southeast Asia
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
02 December 2021
Funded by the EU, the second call targets displacement-affected communities, including in countries affected by both the Myanmar forced displacement situation and disaster/climate-related displacement: (Bangladesh, Malaysia, Myanmar and Thailand).
The deadline for submission of a concept note is Sunday 23 January 2022.
Geneva, Switzerland - Following the launch of the Lives in Dignity Grant Facility and the first call for proposals in June 2021, the European Union (EU) has allocated €12m for a second call for proposals to support local, innovative and development-oriented projects working to assist displacement-affected communities in three additional acute displacement crises.
Forced displacement remains one of the world’s greatest sources of human suffering – according to UNHCR’s Mid-Year Trends Report 2021, global displacement looks set to exceed 84 million by mid-2021, an increase from 82.4 million reported at the end of 2020, with 85 per cent of those displaced hosted in developing countries. The impact of climate change is likely to accelerate the scale of this crisis.
Following the launch of the first call for proposals in June 2021, projects have been selected in central America, the Sahel and countries affected by the Afghanistan crisis. The projects span local initiatives run by local NGOs to government-led programmes and national and international partnerships. They range from building climate-sensitive infrastructure for displaced communities at risk of extreme weather, supporting and growing livelihood opportunities among displaced and host communities, developing water, sanitation and health systems in areas of inadequate service provision, to relocation programmes in areas at severe risk of disaster. Each project will be formally announced in the coming weeks on the Lives in Dignity Grant Facility web pages.
The second call for proposals will focus on projects in countries that have been impacted by the displacement crises in the Horn of Africa, and related to Myanmar and Venezuela. In alignment with the first call, proposals are expected to draw upon and develop new forms of collaboration between humanitarian, development and peace actors, with an emphasis on the engagement of affected populations and local leadership. Potential partners are asked to submit a concept note for the project they wish to have funded by the 23 January 2022 deadline – expanded proposals will then be requested from those who are shortlisted.
European Commissioner for International Partnerships Jutta Urpilainen said: “The first call for proposals from the Lives in Dignity Grant Facility has demonstrated the value of a more local approach to forced displacement. Each selected project offers new and innovative ways to support communities’ resilience and empower their members through livelihoods and basic services. The second call for proposals focuses on some of the world’s most challenging displacement crises. It is our hope that this call too will spur approaches and solutions that make a concrete difference in the lives of displaced people and their hosts.”
The second Call for Proposals focuses on the following countries:
The deadline for submission of a concept note is Sunday 23 January 2022.
Find out more about the Lives in Dignity Grant Facility and download the call for proposals.

About DG INTPA, European Commission:
The Directorate-General for International Partnerships is responsible for formulating the EU’s international partnership and development policy, with the ultimate goal to reduce poverty, ensure sustainable development, and promote democracy, human rights, and the rule of law across the world. Read more: https://ec.europa.eu/info/departments/international-partnerships_en
About UNOPS:
UNOPS’ mission is to help people build better lives and countries achieve peace and sustainable development. We help the United Nations, governments and other partners to provide peace and security, humanitarian and development solutions. Read more: www.unops.org
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/161780-unops-lives-dignity-call-proposals-opens-eur-12-million-available-displacement-aid-projects




Date: 01 November 2021
Title: Southeast Asian Energy Transition Partnership (ETP) to focus on the Region’s pathways to a low carbon future at COP26
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
01 November 2021
ETP to bring together technical experts and decision makers to discuss opportunities for a low carbon pathway in South East Asia at COP26.
Looking closely at the impediments to energy transition in its current implementation countries of Indonesia, Vietnam and the Philippines, ETP, hosted by UNOPS in Bangkok, advocates greater international resources to help the countries transition towards net zero carbon energy systems that simultaneously ensures environmental sustainability, economic growth and energy security.
Two events are organised by ETP at COP26. The first is a joint event with the OECD-ETP titled “Mobilising finance and investment for the clean energy transition”, taking place at the Indonesia Pavilion (Blue Zone) at COP 26 on 1 November 2021, 4:40-6:00 pm (GMT) / 11:40pm-01:00am (ICT). The event will also be live-streamed;
The second ETP COP26 Side Event Session is on “Southeast Asia Energy Transition Dialogue: Challenges and Opportunities to a Low Carbon Pathway”, taking place at the IDFC Pavilion (Blue Zone) at COP26, Glasgow, on 4 November 2021, 9:00AM-10:15AM (GMT) /  4:00PM-5:15PM (ICT). The event will also be live-streamed;
Representatives of ETP will be speaking at broader events to advocate for the issues faced in SEA and discuss opportunities for reducing carbon emissions and delivering on the Paris Agreement.
​​​ETP will bring light to the issues faced in energy transition in SEA to the discussions at the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26), as it continues to mobilize and coordinate the necessary technical and financial resources to create an enabling environment for renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainable infrastructure in the region.
In the first event, held jointly with the OECD today, the partnership will bring together experts from governments, intergovernmental organisations and the private sector to explore opportunities for further leveraging limited domestic and international public funds to mobilise clean energy finance and investment; discuss country progress and consider opportunities to enhance collaboration that catalyses greater investments in emerging economies and highlight international experience and recent developments in supporting clean energy development and mobilising capital for the private sector.
The event will advocate for more targeted application of public funding as well as international climate and development finance to increase the pipeline of bankable clean energy projects in emerging economies. The role of international support and collaboration can help to redouble investor opportunities, de-risk projects and leverage the large amount of private capital needed to achieve clean energy and climate ambitions in emerging economies.
The second event on Thursday will deliver a panel dialogue and discussion session by bringing together governments and international donor community on the challenges and opportunities to a low carbon energy system in the region; and the key role of international support to help the region achieve the ambitious Nationally Determined Contributions targets. The session will specifically explore the key role of international support in  (1) supporting an improved delivery environment to accelerate the energy transition in Southeast Asia, (2) improving coordination between other relevant initiatives in the region, including capital investments and technical assistance, and (3) where possible and appropriate, to promote communication and knowledge sharing among stakeholders in the region on energy transition.
Moreover, it will explore the role of regional development partners aiming to bring leadership in the region together to accelerate the energy transition and tackle the barriers to the clean energy transition in Southeast Asia.
The events will emphasize the role of development partners in unlocking the most imminent energy transition needs to achieve the ambitious climate commitment goals. As with the broader work of ETP, the discussions will facilitate donor efforts to support countries in Southeast Asia transition towards an energy system that simultaneously ensures environmental sustainability, economic growth and energy security.
Speaking ahead of the events, Director for SEA ETP, Sirpa Jarvenpaa said: “The ETP events at COP26 reflect our broader work, of bringing the right technical and financial resources together to create an enabling environment for renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainable infrastructure in the region.”
“Meeting clean energy and climate ambitions in emerging economies will require a massive increase in investments, channelling commercial capital to clean energy projects and attracting overseas investors. We are glad to be a part of these discussions, facilitating donors to support countries to unlock the most imminent energy transition needs across the region and achieve ambitious climate commitment goals.”
Notes to the editors:
Speakers at the first event include:
Airlangga Hartarto, Minister, Co-ordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs, Indonesia, National actions to unlock finance for climate action
Ajay Mathur, Director General, International Solar Alliance, Enabling finance and investment in solar energy in emerging economies
Shintya Roesli, Finance and Risk Management Director, PLN
Norbert Gorißen, Deputy Director General Federal Ministry for the Environment Nature Conservation Building and Nuclear Safety (BMU), “The climate finance from bilateral and international donors to accelerate low carbon economy”
Mason Wallick, Director, Southeast Asian Clean Energy Facility, “Private sector fundings and BF instruments to support public fundings in the energy transition (Indonesia story)”
Michael Hugman, Director Climate Finance of Children Investment Fund Foundation (CIFF), “Role of philanthropy in energy transition in Southeast Asia”
Speakers at the second event include:
Ms. Manelle Ait Sahlia, Deputy Head of Energy Department and the Chair of Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership (ETP), AFD
DG Dadan Kusdiana, Director General, New Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, Indonesia
USEC William Felix Fuentabella, Undersecretary, Planning, Renewable Energy, Power, Investment, Media Affairs, Department of Energy, the Philippines
Nguyen Hong Dien, Minister HE, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Viet Nam
Edwin Syahruzad, President Director of PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur (Persero)
Lloyd Bautista, Academic Researcher and Lecturer,  Ateneo School of Governance
Nhien Ngo, Executive Director of Vietnam Initiative for Energy Transition
Simon Rolland, Energy Programme Director, GIZ
Liz Mckeon, Head of Portfolio, Climate Action, IKEA Foundation
Sirpa Jarvenpaa, Fund Director, Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership
Live streams of the events can be found here:
Event 1: Live streamed through this link
Event 2: live streamed through this link
Press contact details:
For media inquiries, and to arrange interviews with authors please contact:
	Yuchong Nam, Energy Transition Partnership - yuchongn [@] unops.org
About Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership:
The Southeast Asia Energy Transition Partnership is a five-year, multi-donor partnership formed by governmental and philanthropic partners to accelerate sustainable energy transition in Southeast Asia in line with the Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals. We combine the best of the public and private sector with the UN to help mobilize and coordinate technical and financial resources to build the foundations for renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainable resilient infrastructures. With an initial focus on Indonesia, Vietnam and the Philippines, ETP helps countries to transition towards an energy system that simultaneously ensures environmental sustainability, economic growth and energy security. UNOPS is the fund manager and host of ETP Secretariat. Read more about ETP here and about UNOPS here.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/156350-southeast-asian-energy-transition-partnership-etp-focus-region%E2%80%99s-pathways-low-carbon-future




Date: 26 October 2021
Title: COVID-19 vaccination of vulnerable displaced persons begins in Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
26 October 2021
‏‏‎ 　　 ‏‏‎ 　 ‏‏‎ ‏‏‎
On 25 and 26 October, 1,295 displaced persons in Ban Tham Hin Temporary Shelter in Suan Phueng District, Ratchaburi, received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccines, thanks to the effort of Thai Red Cross and its network partners. Administration of second dose is scheduled for November 2021.
The pilot vaccination in Tham Hin camp by the Thai Red Cross is a vivid testimony of Thailand’s firm commitment to the principle of inclusivity without leaving anyone behind”, stated Giuseppe de Vincentiis, UNHCR representative while welcoming the commencement vaccination of vulnerable displaced persons in Thailand. The vaccination rollout was marked with launching event, presided by Dr. Apichart Chinwanno, Assistant Secretary General for Externals Relations of Thai Red Cross Society with participation of the governor of Ratchaburi, Mr. Ronnapop Luengpairote; Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Interior Ministry, representatives from UNHCR, Thai Red Cross Society (TRC), the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the International Rescue Committee (IRC).
The Tham Hin campaign targets priority populations: individuals with chronic illness, with disabilities, elderly, and women with more than 12 weeks of pregnancy. Volunteers and health professionals jointly conduct vaccination. Htoo Htoo, an IRC volunteer, shared how thrilled he is to be part of this activity made possible thanks to close cooperation between TRC, Ministry of Interior, Ratchaburi province, Suan Pheung Hospital, IRC, and UNHCR. “I am also going to get vaccinated, and I am a bit nervous too”, said Htoo Htoo. “Still, I am hopeful vaccination will alleviate the challenges brought by COVID-19 for residents of temporary shelter”. Although COVID-19 impacts everyone, refugees and asylum-seekers can be particularly vulnerable due to challenges they may face in meeting basic needs, accessing information about COVID-19 and obtaining hygiene items or medical support.
This pilot vaccination programme by the Thai Red Cross further builds on previous pilot projects launched by the Chulabhorn Royal Academy (CRA). During September-August, the CRA implemented a pilot vaccination programme which has benefitted 374 urban refugees. CRA has also allocated 20,000 doses for up to 10,000 refugees with already over 4,000 refugees having received first dose of vaccine in Mae La temporary shelter.
UNHCR appreciates the generosity of Thailand in helping the most vulnerable have access to vaccines and continues to endeavour to engage all displaced communities in awareness-raising efforts to the furthest extent possible by integrating COVID-19 risk communication messages into its ongoing outreach activities, ensuring that materials and messages are shared in a culturally appropriate manner way and in relevant languages.
Original press release published on UNHCR Thailand.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/157344-covid-19-vaccination-vulnerable-displaced-persons-begins-thailand




Date: 21 October 2021
Title: UN supports ban of ‘e-cigarettes’ in Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
21 October 2021
E-cigarettes pose a threat to Thailand’s tobacco control efforts and can reverse gains made over many decades, says the United Nations in Thailand.
Bangkok, Thailand - The United Nations expresses full support for Thailand’s ban of electronic cigarettes, known as e-cigarettes, and urges the Government to take strong measures, as appropriate to the national context, to protect the people in Thailand, especially youth from the harms of tobacco use.
“Evidence suggests that e-cigarettes are harmful to health and are not safe. E-cigarettes put young people at risk of lifelong nicotine addiction and can turn current users into dual users,” according to a letter issued today addressed to H.E. General Prayuth Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister of Thailand. The use of tobacco products kills approximately 70,000 people in Thailand every year, the World Health Organization (WHO) has reported, costing the economy an estimated 93 billion Thai baht or 0.65 per cent of the GDP.
Renaud Meyer, UN Resident Coordinator ad interim to Thailand, said: “E-cigarettes pose a threat to Thailand’s tobacco control efforts and can reverse gains made over many decades. Especially worrying is the increasing use of e-cigarettes among adolescents aged 13-15 in recent years from 3.3 per cent in 2015 to 8.1 per cent in 2021.”
Dr. Renu Garg, WHO representative ad interim to Thailand, commended recent efforts in tobacco control but also emphasized: “It is recommended to further enact comprehensive evidence-based tobacco control measures to reduce nicotine addiction and tobacco use, to fulfill Thailand’s obligations under the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.”
Responding to unproven health claims about e-cigarettes, she added: “WHO has never stated that e-cigarettes are 95 per cent less harmful to health than conventional cigarettes.”
An earlier statement by WHO has confirmed the need to promote smoking cessation, citing tried and tested interventions, including brief advice from health professionals, quit lines, mobile text messaging, nicotine replacement therapies and non-nicotine pharmacotherapies.
For more information and media requests, please contact:
Amy Thaweeporn KUMMETHA (kummethat@who.int)
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/152544-un-supports-ban-%E2%80%98e-cigarettes%E2%80%99-thailand




Date: 11 October 2021
Title: Achieving just transition to net-zero economy key to building climate-resilience in Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
11 October 2021
“The shift away from fossil fuel dependency and reducing carbon emissions are among the most pressing priorities, for which we have a finite window of opportunity to act,” said United Nations Resident Coordinator in Thailand, Ms. Gita Sabharwal.
Bangkok, Thailand – Business leaders representing Thailand’s major industries today joined the Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT) Forum 2021 and United Nations in issuing a strong call to action by the private sector community on climate sustainability ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference COP26 in November in Glasgow. They committed to transition to more sustainable business models at the annual GCNT Forum, including net zero emissions by 2050 at the earliest.
According to the Prime Minister of Thailand, General Prayuth Chan-o-cha, today’s commitment underscores the fact that climate action could not be more urgent, and leadership by the private sector is crucial to Thailand’s efforts in successfully tackling climate change. The country must swiftly enhance its knowledge and capacity to create new innovations and technologies to tackle climate change and other environmental concerns and, at the same time, adapt and transition to a low-carbon economy and build resilience. In order to do so, it is necessary to leverage available international funds and mechanisms such as the bilateral exchanges of knowledge and technology and the joint credit mechanism (JCM).
At the same time, the Government has integrated climate change into national policies under the thirteenth National Economic and Social Development Plan (NESDP), i.e. the tenth milestone – Development of a Circular Economy and Low-Carbon Society, and the eleventh milestone – Reduction of Risks from Natural Disaster and Climate Change. Accordingly, the Government is currently drafting the Climate Change Act, which will ensure comprehensive coverage of all climate-change related issues. In addition, in November this year, Thailand will join the COP 26 Conference in Glasgow, which he hoped will reach conclusions to address the climate crisis and operationalize the Paris Agreement.
“Thailand places importance on a balanced and environmentally-friendly economic growth based on the Bio-Circular-Green Economic Model (BCG), and has to likewise intensify its efforts in addressing climate change. This is an opportunity for Thailand to transform towards a value-added economy that will lead to a more balanced, sustainable and environmentally friendly growth. Most importantly, it is an opportunity to create new dynamism in our economy, which will benefit all businesses,” Prime Minister General Prayuth Chan-o-cha explained.
According to Mr. Suphachai Chearavanont, Chairperson of GCNT and Group Chief Executive Officer of Charoen Pokphand Group, said one-third of the network’s members have delivered on their commitment to integrating the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into business strategies through 510 projects in the pipeline, which partially amounts to 420 billion baht. These actions mobilize sustainability within the Thai context, and likewise, today’s commitment to prevent and mitigate climate change will support government efforts in line with the Bio-Circular-Green Economic Model (BCG) that is low-carbon economy, while prioritizing clean energy and high-value bio-based or “S-curve” industries. At the same time, this requires investing in new technologies and innovations with a focus on efficiency, design-thinking and building a new generation of sustainability leaders. Saving the environment starts with us and it is through transparency in corporate reporting that we can build greater awareness and resiliency to climate change.
“We must act swiftly and accelerate the Thai economy’s transformation for the net zero era, to truly embrace the ‘Race To Zero’ with the focus on a clean energy-driven economy and society. Achieving a just transition to a green economy that is fair, leaves no one behind and reduces all dimensions of inequality especially gaps in gender parity and economic and educational opportunities,” he said.
United Nations Resident Coordinator in Thailand, Ms. Gita Sabharwal pointed out that “the shift away from fossil fuel dependency and reducing carbon emissions are among the most pressing priorities, for which we have a finite window of opportunity to act.” She stressed the urgent necessity to expand carbon markets, increase innovation and investments in sustainable technologies, and provide more support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the transition to net-zero. “GCNT recognizes that while sustainability goals are universal, companies have to go at their own pace, to learn and unlearn, in a challenging environment. This period of creative disruption is the key commercial opportunity of our time," she added. "The economy needs to move in unison, which makes platforms such as the GCNT all the more important.”
In her video message to the GCNT Forum, Ms. Sanda Ojiambo, Chief Executive Officer of the United Nations Global Compact, congratulated the GCNT members on advancing both the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement. However, she also urged all participants to reduce their corporate carbon footprint and shift to renewable energy as well as a more circular economy of reuse and recycling. “These are challenging goals, but they are also opportunities for transformative change," she said, in encouraging companies to join the United Nations Global Compact and become part of that change.
The Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of Thailand, Mr. Varawut Silpa-archa emphasized the need for collective action on the converging global crises of climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic, saying this was a roadmap for sustainable recovery. “It is not the responsibility of any one individual, not the sole responsibility of the Government or the opposition or the private sector. It is a mutual obligation that requires collaboration because climate and environmental degradation will affect us all,” he said. “We must focus on greenhouse gas reductions and integrate environmental and green measures into all industrial operations and business sectors, to achieve a low-carbon society.”
Five high-level panel discussions were held during the Forum, during which the participants discussed responsible business practices, with the focus on pressing issues such as the state of sustainability, credible climate actions via sustainable finance, the role of innovation and technology in addressing climate impacts, and business leadership and investment in carbon markets.
Speaking on the role of market regulators in climate sustainability, the Secretary-General of the Thailand Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Ms. Ruenvadee Suwanmongkol, said her organization was determined to develop enabling ecosystems for Thailand’s sustainable capital market. This has already led to the introduction of the mandatory “56-1 One Report” annual reporting criteria, in which listed companies and all future IPO filing forms submitted to the SEC must disclose updated information on greenhouse gas emissions. “It is critical that the voices of all sectors are heard, and sustainability markets are supported. The SEC supports the issuance of investment products to promote that ambition,” she explained.
Against this backdrop, the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) has been working closely with the Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization and the Federation of Thai Industries “to establish a carbon credit market as a fundamental infrastructure for efficient energy consumption,” according to the SET President, Dr. Pakorn Peetathawatchai. This follows the introduction of similar measures to enable innovation and development of environmentally-friendly businesses in Thailand.
Normally held in Bangkok, the Forum this year was virtual, organized by GCNT in partnership with the United Nations in Thailand. More than 800 participants attended the event, including members of the Thai private, public and social sectors as well as representatives from the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, United Nations Environment Programme and United Nations Development Programme. Business members of GCNT participating in the forum included Charoen PokphandGroup, Thai Bev, CP All, Charoen Pokphand Foods, HSBC, Huawei Technologies (Thailand), NR Instant Produce, True Corporation, Bangchak Corporation, BCPG, CP Intertrade, Charoen Pokphand Produce, IRPC, Ek-chai Distribution, Siam Makro, Oklin Thailand, Pranda Jewelry, PTTEP, PTT Global Chemical, PTT Group, Thai Oil, and Krung Thai Bank.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/151103-achieving-just-transition-net-zero-economy-key-building-climate-resilience-thailand




Date: 05 October 2021
Title: Global Compact, United Nations to accelerate Thailand’s business leadership on climate action
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
05 October 2021
Bangkok, Thailand – The Global Compact Network in Thailand, in partnership with the United Nations in Thailand is organizing the GCNT Forum, which brings together a broad range of delegates to discuss strategies on maximizing the positive contribution of business to Thailand’s climate leadership and chart a path to a more inclusive future.
With the theme ‘Thailand’s Climate Leadership Summit 2021: A New Era of Accelerated Actions’, this year’s event will focus on the role private sector leadership can play to move towards carbon neutrality in Thailand against the grim backdrop of the climate crisis. General Prayuth Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister of Thailand, will deliver opening remarks.
Thanyaporn Krichtitayawuth, Executive Director at GCNT, said that climate change is a more serious threat to humanity than the COVID-19 crisis, which may eventually disappear. Climate change is one of the most pressing and challenging issues in sustainable development as has been confirmed by recent scientific reports. Our world is experiencing worsening global warming: intense wildfires, rising sea levels, melting Polar ice caps and reduced snowfall all culminating in the year 2020 being the world’s warmest year on record.
The central objective of the Paris Agreement is to hold the increase in global average temperatures to 1.5-degree Celsius from pre-industrial levels. Despite this, the year 2020 saw a 1.2-degree Celsius of warming, pointing to the severity of the current situation. The former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said: “There is no Plan B because there is no Planet B” – all this means we must take serious action now to preserve tomorrow as there is no spare planet.
Normally held in Bangkok, the Forum this year is virtual, with more than 70 GCNT members, private sector organizations and stakeholders in Thailand mobilized to work together through a “solutions-oriented” approach to mitigate the climate challenge. At the same time, they will take stock of progress made towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the country since last year’s forum, focusing on responsible business commitments and the role Thai private sector can play in charting the next steps to address climate change.
The opening segment will be chaired by high-level delegates including General Prayuth Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister of Thailand; H.E. Varawut Silpa-archa, Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of Thailand; Sanda Ojiambo, CEO and Executive Director of the UN Global Compact; Suphachai Chearavanont, Chairperson of GCNT; Gita Sabharwal, UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand; Dr. Pakorn Peetathawatchai, President of Stock Exchange of Thailand; and Ruenvadee Suwanmongkol, Secretary-General, Securities and Exchange Commission of Thailand.
Leading companies in Thailand which are expected to take part in the event include Charoen Pokphand, HSBC, Huawei Technology, NR Instant Produce, True Corporation, Bangchak Corporation, CP Intertrade, Charoen Pokphand Produce, IRPC, Ek-chai Distribution, Siam Makro, Oklin Thailand, Pranda Jewelry, PTTEP and Krungthai Bank. Representatives from the United Nations will also be speaking at the GCNT Forum, including UNIDO, UNEP, and UNDP.
Registration: Mandatory for all participants including journalists. Click to register: https://gcntforum2021.globalcompact-th.com or scan the QR code (banner above).
When: October 11, 2021 [Event begins at 9.00 am (Bangkok time, GMT+7)]
Where: Online [Zoom]
Social Media: Follow the hashtags #GCNTForum2021 for live updates on our Twitter channels @UNThailand @GCNT_TH
Note to editors:
Global Compact Network Thailand Association (GCNT: Global Compact Network Thailand)
Officially launched in December 2018 by 15 founding members in Thailand, currently has more than 70 members. Global Compact is one of the United Nations' local networks of the main global projects. The UN Global Compact, the largest sustainable development network in the world has campaigns for companies around the world to strategize and adhere to the principles of working that create a sustainable economy, it covers four operations: human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption as well as carry out the activities of the movement of the social goals broadly under the UN Global Compact's ten principles to accomplish the United Nations goals, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
United Nations in Thailand
The United Nations has worked together with the Royal Thai Government and people of Thailand for more than the past fifty years to achieve inclusive and sustainable development in line with national priorities and plans. Comprising of 21 UN agencies, the UN country team in Thailand pursues this objective by carrying out work in close cooperation with the Royal Thai Government, national stakeholders, civil society, academia, private sector, donors and media. The UN in Thailand also work closely with the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)/IGES Regional Collaboration Centre for Asia and the Pacific (RCC Bangkok).
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/149969-global-compact-united-nations-accelerate-thailand%E2%80%99s-business-leadership-climate-action




Date: 04 October 2021
Title: Thailand should promptly enact legislation criminalizing torture, enforced disappearance, UN Human Rights Office says
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
04 October 2021
“We call on the Thai Government to enact, without further delay, a bill that includes all the relevant and necessary elements to ensure its full compliance with international standards and to realize its 2016 UPR voluntary pledge to ratify the ICPPED and the OPCAT,” said Cynthia Veliko, Regional Representative of the UN Human Rights Office for South-East Asia.
Bangkok, Thailand – The UN Human Rights Office for South-East Asia welcomes Thailand’s initial approval of the draft law on Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance and urges the Government to ensure the legislation fully meets international human rights standards and enact it promptly.
The draft law was approved on 16 September for review by Thailand’s House of Representatives, and the Ad-Hoc Committee appointed to review it is expected to start its consideration on 5 October.
Thailand ratified the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CAT) in 2007 and signed the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance (ICPPED) in 2012. But it has ratified neither the ICPPED nor the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT).
In 2016, during its second cycle Universal Periodic Review (UPR) – a unique process which involves a review of the human rights records of all UN Member States – Thailand voluntarily pledged to become a party to several international treaties, including the ICPPED and the OPCAT. In its mid-term report for its second cycle UPR in 2019, Thailand stated that it will accede to the ICPPED only after the national law criminalizing torture and enforced disappearance is enacted.
The draft law incorporates key international principles of non-derogability of torture and non-refoulement, but the critical definitions of the crimes of torture and enforced disappearance are not in line with international law. The law also lacks penal provisions related to cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. In addition, it does not address the issue of the inadmissibility of statements and other information obtained by torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment as evidence in legal proceedings.
“We call on the Thai Government to enact, without further delay, a bill that includes all the relevant and necessary elements to ensure its full compliance with international standards and to realize its 2016 UPR voluntary pledge to ratify the ICPPED and the OPCAT,” said Cynthia Veliko, Regional Representative of the UN Human Rights Office for South-East Asia.
For more information and media requests, please contact:  in Bangkok, Todd Pitman (+66 63 216 9080 / todd.pitman@un.org) or Wannaporn Samutassadong (+66 65 986 0810 / wannaporn.samutassadong@un.org).
Tag and share – Twitter: @OHCHRAsia, Facebook: OHCHRAsia and Instagram @ohchr_asia
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/149829-thailand-should-promptly-enact-legislation-criminalizing-torture-enforced-disappearance-un




Date: 28 September 2021
Title: Leading businesses in Thailand join Global Compact-United Nations push for climate action
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
28 September 2021
"This is an opportunity to shape the recovery and demonstrate to the region and beyond the role the private sector can play to move towards carbon neutrality in Thailand," said Gita Sabharwal, UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand. "The time is now to take action in a journey in which we can both learn and inspire each other."
Bangkok, Thailand – Representatives of 77 companies in Thailand have gathered to discuss the next steps they can take to tackle climate change, a main goal of Global Compact Network and the United Nations in Thailand in contributing to the upcoming climate summit COP26 in Glasgow this November.

The speakers discussed key milestones in reducing their greenhouse gas emissions, including the “New Era of Action” for Thailand’s climate leadership, and measures to limit global warming in line with the 1.5-degree goal of the Paris Agreement.
The event organizers - Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT), the United Nations in Thailand, and the British Embassy – applauded the companies at the event that already were embedding sustainability into their operations and encouraged more businesses to join the movement. Key to this, highlighted the participants, would be an enabling policy environment that incentivizes further and quicker action by businesses.
Suphachai Chearavanont, Chairperson of GCNT and Group Chief Executive Officer of Charoen Pokphand Group Company Limited, said climate change is a more serious threat to humanity than the COVID-19 crisis, which may eventually disappear. Climate change is widespread, rapid, and intensifying, according to the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The UN Secretary-General has described the report as a “code red” for humanity. As one of the most vulnerable regions to climate change, Southeast Asia and Thailand especially, will face more severe effects as sea levels rise and other extremes such as ocean acidity, coastal flooding, disrupted food systems, reduced crop yields and epidemics worsen – all which could cost the world up to 10% of its total economic value by 2050. In Southeast Asia, this would mean a 20% cut in growth unless adaptive measures are taken.
The challenge is immense, he said, and we know what must be done: shift to clean energy sources, promote better waste disposal, recycling and the circular economy and help companies improve their resilience and adaptive capacity through training. Adaptation to climate change is crucial for businesses while presenting new opportunities for commitment, which we are hoping to see at this year’s sustainability leaders summit 'GCNT FORUM 2021’ on 11 October.
“GCNT calls on the private sector to commit to climate action through greater disclosure and corporate transparency. What we require now is a new generation of sustainability leaders, more market-based mechanisms to reduce emissions, and innovation driven by technology and new thinking,” said Supachai.
In her opening remarks, Gita Sabharwal, UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, welcomed leadership from the business community in the country to limit global warming and align with the ‘RaceToZero’ initiative, which represents a recommitment to science-based climate policy, and an unprecedented opportunity to unleash innovation and financing, create jobs and regenerate nature at a more sustainable pace and scale.
In the continuing recovery amid the pandemic, she explained, adopting pathways that are low-carbon dependent would be a crucial step in line with the 1.5-degree goal of the Paris Agreement, in addition to promoting sustainable investing. Recently in September, the UN in Thailand in partnership with the Ministry of Finance of Thailand and the Government Pension Fund engaged 43 investors and bankers with total asset size US$1.3 trillion who committed as business leaders to act responsibly in the face of the climate crisis, and to scale up financing in support of sustainability.
"This is an opportunity to shape the recovery and demonstrate to the region and beyond the role the private sector can play to move towards carbon neutrality in Thailand," she said. "The time is now to take action in a journey in which we can both learn and inspire each other."
Commending the importance of current collaborations, H.E. Mark Gooding British Ambassador to Thailand said: “COP26 must be the moment that every country, and every part of society, embraces their responsibility to protect our planet. Businesses are truly a vital component of all our goals for COP26 and can help achieve success through your own actions, working with peers and across your value chains and being positive advocates for climate action. We invite all businesses to join the Race to Zero, a UN-backed global campaign rallying non-state actors to take rigorous and immediate action to reduce emissions.”
He added that the British Embassy Bangkok will be proud to see Thai companies highlighted at COP26, where the world will meet to agree on more ambitious action to address climate change.
In just over a month, COP26 will take place, bringing together governments, climate experts and campaigners including from Thailand and international organizations, non-profit agencies and the business sector with the objective of mobilizing cooperation. Without accelerated effort to reduce fossil fuel emissions and deforestation, billions of people are at risk from the effects of climate change, and businesses should prepare to ensure compliance with an increasing number of environmental and climate change regulations globally.
During the event ‘Build Forward Better: Turning the Climate Crisis into Business Opportunities,’ GCNT also held a workshop to showcase the leadership of its private sector members including from Bangchak Corporation, CP All, Charoen Pokphand, PTTEP, Oklin Thailand, NR Instant Produce, Siam Cement Group, Pranda Jewelry, Thaioil Group, and Siam Makro, who described ways for companies to better integrate climate action goals into their internal policies.
NOTE TO EDITORS:
Global Compact Network Thailand Association (GCNT: Global Compact Network Thailand)
Officially launched in December 2018 by 15 founding members in Thailand, currently has more than 70 members. Global Compact is one of the United Nations' local networks of the main global projects. The UN Global Compact, the largest sustainable development network in the world has campaigns for companies around the world to strategize and adhere to the principles of working that create a sustainable economy, it covers four operations: human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption as well as carry out the activities of the movement of the social goals broadly under the UN Global Compact's ten principles to accomplish the United Nations goals, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
United Nations in Thailand
The United Nations has worked together with the Royal Thai Government and people of Thailand for more than the past fifty years to achieve inclusive and sustainable development in line with national priorities and plans. Comprising of 21 UN agencies, the UN country team in Thailand pursues this objective by carrying out work in close cooperation with the Royal Thai Government, national stakeholders, civil society, academia, private sector, donors and media. The UN in Thailand also work closely with the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)/IGES Regional Collaboration Centre for Asia and the Pacific (RCC Bangkok).
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/146694-leading-businesses-thailand-join-global-compact-united-nations-push-climate-action




Date: 27 September 2021
Title: UNOPS deliver Oxygen Concentrators to the people of Thailand, donated by the Government of Japan
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
27 September 2021
In partnership with the Government of Japan, UNOPS delivered 868 oxygen concentrators to Thailand to strengthen COVID-19-response efforts nationwide.
In close coordination with the Ministry of Public Health of the Royal Thai Government, the UN country team in Thailand, led by UNOPS, managed the delivery of oxygen concentrators at the Suvarnabhumi Airport on 18 and 21 September 2021.
An official handover ceremony was held at Bang Yai Hospital's Public Health Office in central Nonthaburi Province on 27 September 2021.
In attendance were:
His Excellency Dr. Sathit Pitutecha, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Public Health, Royal Thai Government
His Excellency Mr. Kazuya Nashida, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Kingdom of Thailand
Mr. Sanjay Mathur, Regional Director, UNOPS Asia Region
During the event, it was confirmed that having delivered the items safely in 20 days, the 868 oxygen concentrators will be distributed to 79 hospitals and community health centres across all provinces of the country.
Each oxygen concentrator has a 10-litre capacity and can be used in ICU facilities.
The Royal Thai Government highly appreciates this donation to aid its medical response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and strengthen the country’s healthcare system.
His Excellency Mr. Kauzya Nashida, Ambassador of Japan in Thailand, stated: “Japan and Thailand have been helping each other and deepening ties amid various crises. In addition to this project with UNOPS, Japan has been supporting Thailand in overcoming the COVID-19 pandemic, by the donation of 1.65 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine, the provision of cold chain equipment needed for vaccine transportation and storage... As a “Strategic Partner” and friend to Thailand, Japan will continue to extend support for the efforts of the people and Government of Thailand to build back better from the pandemic.”
Ms. Samina Kadwani, UNOPS Director for Thailand, Indonesia and the Pacific, stated: “The delivery of oxygen concentrators is the latest example of UNOPS and the government of Japan’s commitment to help the people of Thailand tackle the pandemic. Through this donation, vital oxygen needs will be addressed, strengthening the medical response of the country's healthcare system."
H.E. Mr. Sathit Pitutecha, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Public Health, Thailand, stated: On behalf of the Royal Thai Government and the people of Thailand, I would like to express our gratitude to the Government of Japan and UNOPS for supporting Thailand in fighting COVID. These 868 oxygen concentrators that Thailand received today will be allocated to health facilities throughout the country for supporting the treatment of COVID patients. We are also grateful to UNOPS for supporting this donation.
The shipment is part of a program where UNOPS procures and delivers urgently required medical equipment to Thailand and Lao PDR in response to the global pandemic.
The growing partnership between the Government of Japan and UNOPS is a positive step towards strengthening national resilience to the COVID-19 pandemic in Asia and the Pacific.
For media inquiries please contact Maria Cristina Palamini, email: mariapa@unops.org
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/146301-unops-deliver-oxygen-concentrators-people-thailand-donated-government-japan




Date: 23 August 2021
Title: United Nations thanks Thailand for its contribution to peacekeeping
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
23 August 2021

Thailand has 296 military and police personnel, including 13 women, currently serving in two UN peace operations. Thailand’s largest contribution is to the United Nations Peacekeeping Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS), and it also provides military observers to the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP).
Over the past three decades, Thailand has provided peacekeepers to various UN peace operations, including in Cambodia, Lebanon, Iraq, Timor-Leste, Burundi, Haiti and Liberia. “The sustained commitment of Thailand to UN Peacekeeping is appreciated by the United Nations,” said Mr. Lacroix.
“Thai troops have demonstrated a high-level of professionalism and dedication, and we are deeply grateful for their service and sacrifice”, Mr. Lacroix added.
During Thailand’s decades’ long contribution to UN Peacekeeping, eight of its personnel have lost their lives while serving under the UN flag,
Thailand supports the Secretary-General’s ‘Action for Peacekeeping’ (A4P) initiative, which calls on Member States, the Security Council, host countries, troop- and police-contributing countries, regional partners and financial contributors to renew our collective engagement with UN peacekeeping and mutually commit to reach for excellence.
Note to editors:
The UN's Department of Global Communications runs the international multi-year communications campaign titled 'UN Peacekeeping -- Service and Sacrifice.' The campaign expresses the world body's gratitude to the countries that contribute their uniformed men and women to serve in the peacekeeping missions. https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/service-and-sacrifice

Since 1948, more than a million women and men have served as UN peacekeepers. Every day, they make a tangible difference in the lives of millions of the world’s most vulnerable people, and every day they save lives. Peacekeeping is a unique force with military and police personnel from over 120 countries serving together, alongside civilian colleagues. UN peacekeepers come from diverse cultures and speak different languages, but share a common purpose: the protection of vulnerable communities and the provision of support to countries struggling to move from conflict to peace. Tragically some make the ultimate sacrifice - over 3,500 peacekeepers have lost their lives in the cause of peace. https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/what-is-peacekeeping

Action for Peacekeeping: https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/action-for-peacekeeping-a4p

Media enquiries in Thailand:
Office of the Resident Coordinator (Bangkok)
Bovornpong Vathanathanakul
Communications Officer
UN Resident Coordinator Office in Thailand
Phone: +66 86 397 3369
Email: bovornpong.vathanathanakul@un.org

Media enquiries in South Sudan (UNMISS):
Priyanka Chowdhury
Head of Multimedia Communications & Public Information
E-mail: chowdhury20@un.org
Desk: 190-2872; Mobile: +211 912108281

Media enquiries at UNHQ:
Department of Global Communications (New York):
Douglas Coffman
Phone: + 1 917 361 9923
Email: coffmand@un.org

Valerie Mainil-Varlet
Phone: +1 929 213 8113
Email: mainil-varlet@un.org

Department of Peace Operations
Hector Calderon
Phone: + 1 212 963 4203
Email: Hector.calderon@un.org
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/141368-united-nations-thanks-thailand-its-contribution-peacekeeping




Date: 23 August 2021
Title: Global Compact Thailand, United Nations join to help businesses take concrete steps for climate action
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
23 August 2021
Bangkok - Business leaders and policymakers said today that top priority must be given to bringing corporate social responsibility practices in line with global climate targets, and by doing so, this will create valuable opportunities for all.
This was the conclusion of the technical webinar ‘Race to Zero: Meet the World’s Race to Zero Heroes for Climate Action’ including more than 400 public- and private-sector representatives from across the region, held as part of the #RaceToZero global dialogue, and ahead of a major UN Climate Change Conference, known as COP26, in November.
Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT) co-convened the event with the UN Resident Coordinator Office in Thailand, UNFCCC/IGES Regional Collaboration Centre for Asia and the Pacific (RCC Bangkok), and the team of UN High-Level Climate Action Champions Gonzalo Muñoz and Nigel Topping. Its purpose was to help businesses take transformational action in setting climate targets by bringing together experts, sharing best practices, as well as providing tools to help them achieve a net-zero transition.
Noppadol Dej-Udom, Chief Sustainability Officer, Charoen Pokphand Group Co., Ltd. and Secretary General of GCNT, said the event will help build momentum for the GCNT Annual Forum in October, which will take place under the theme ‘Coping with Climate Change.’ He said the private sector must step up against climate change, citing for urgency the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report that the UN Secretary-General has called a “code red for humanity.” Business-as-usual was no longer an option – and that is why GCNT has made building climate preparedness and adaptation among its members a top priority, Noppadol said.
“We have seen how much effort Thai businesses and all sectors of society have put towards coping with the COVID-19 pandemic. I strongly believe that to tackle the ongoing climate crisis, we will need even more effort, more commitment, and more actions.,” he added.
According to Deloitte’s Global Survey conducted earlier this year, 80 per cent of business leaders expressed concern about climate change, the majority acknowledging that the world was at a tipping point, hence demanding collective responsibility to mitigate the consequences of increased emissions.
On this front, Gita Sabharwal, UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, explained that the private sector, which generates nearly 9 in 10 jobs and contributes to over 80 per cent of the country’s GDP, has an undeniable leadership role and responsibility. Although traditionally environmental spending is seen as a cost burden to the economy, a recently published IMF Paper suggests that green spending can be a green multiplier contributing to anywhere between 2 to 7 times more than conventional multipliers. This is precisely why it is so critical to create an enabling environment for a green economy and business sustainability, she added.
“I am pleased that the private sector in Thailand is taking such bold initiatives to be climate champions, with some companies already aiming to be carbon neutral over the coming decade,” she said. “With leadership from the private sector in setting climate targets, it will inspire all of us to be more ambitious ourselves, including our governments. What is clear is that we must champion the cause of the planet together. The solution requires action from all of us together.”
Jens Radschinki, Regional Lead of UNFCCC/IGES Regional Collaboration Centre for Asia and the Pacific (RCC Bangkok), said this year will see countries embarking on their post-2020 climate action, including reducing national emissions and adapting to the impacts of climate change as part of their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). The tasks ahead are enormous, and the private sector is a critical player in accelerating the global decarbonization to achieve net zero emissions by latest 2050.
“Ambitious government commitments and country action is needed,” he said. “To be consistent with 1.5-degree goal, the global GHG emissions need to decline by around 45% by 2030. Ahead of us lies a fundamental transformation of our economy, and private sector needs to play a key role in setting science-based targets to reduce GHG emissions.”
Participants also heard from climate experts, including from the Science-Based Targets Initiative and Business Ambition for 1.5°C campaign, who explained new commitments or action plans for achieving net-zero emissions, as well as the three UN-backed ‘Race to Zero,’ ‘Race to Resilience’ and ‘Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero’ initiatives.
Businesses need a common baseline to keep their climate goals in reach, acknowledged Race to Zero members Moh Suthasiny from Happy Grocers and Dan Pathomvanich from NR Instant Produce PCL, as they shared about their zero emission targets, on how to keep raising ambition, and to deliver on it through concrete action.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/141420-global-compact-thailand-united-nations-join-help-businesses-take-concrete-steps-climate




Date: 17 June 2021
Title: Global Compact Thailand joins forces with "CEOs"   to elevate  business plan setting targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions   UN  Global Compact Virtual Leaders Summit 2021
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
17 June 2021
Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT), a local network of UN Global Compact in New York, co-hosted UN Global Compact Virtual Leaders Summit 2021. This year CEOs of three leading Thai business organizations reflected on Thailand's sustainability leadership and global transformation.  Global warming was on the top of their agenda. The year 2021 is an important moment to drive the world towards net zero goal in support of the Paris Agreement, which aims to limit the rise of the world's average temperature within 1.5 degrees celsius.  In addition, the key messages shared by the top Thai CEOs are in line with the main objectives of GCNT, which aims to be the sustainability network working with key stakeholders to change the world during “A New Era of Action” as declared by the United Nations.

Ms. Thanyaporn Krichtitayawuth, Executive Director, Global Compact Network Thailand, said that Thailand has been honored for the second year by the UN Global Compact to co-host a global panel discussion with leading CEOs of Thai businesses.  They have participated in 3 key fora.  Starting from the opening plenary of the Summit, Mr. Suphachai Chearavanont, CEO of Charoen Pokphand Group (C.P. Group) and Chairperson of Global Compact Network Thailand joined the high-level discussion, "Light the Way to Glasgow and Net-Zero: Credible Climate Action for a 1.5°C World."  Mr. Dan Pathomvanich,  CEO of NR Instant Produce Public Company Limited, participated in the discussion, “A New Era of Action, Accelerate Climate Action: Raising Business Pathway to Decarbonization ” to combat climate change and add business solutions to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.  Mr. Ho Ren Hua, CEO of Thai Wah Public Company Limited, participated in a plenary discussion on, “SDG Ambition: Mobilizing Ambition for Corporate Actions Towards the Global Goals.”  The three leading Thai organizations reflected on the potential of the Thai business sector to make a difference in terms of sustainability on a global scale.  They are an example of business organizations adopting Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), have  a clear and concrete plan, especially on climate change, with measurableoutcomes.
Mr. Suphachai Chearavanont, CEO of C.P. Group and Chairperson of Global Compact Network Thailand said that to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we must start by raising awareness of the current unsustainable consumption patterns such as the long-standing overconsumption of natural resources, resulting in global warming.  Being in the agri-food and retail businesses, C.P. Group works with more than 100,000 stakeholders and partners to manage our supply chain. Most importantly, we raise awareness of our more than 400,000 employees to pursue the same objective in sustainable business practices.
Over the next ten years, C.P. Group will draw from renewable energy for our 1,600 MegaWatts of energy need.  At the same time, the Group aims to drive waste disposal, especially the food waste, in the entire process to zero.
He also urged all stock exchanges and the governments throughout the world to require all companies to report on their progress towards zero emissions.  Such reports will help make the net zero by 2050 goal obtainable and tangible when the entire private sector races towards the same goal.  Moreover, he stressed the importance of upgrading our educational system to include not only lessons on digital technology but also sustainability as part of the curriculum.
Mr. Dan Pathomvanich, CEO of NR Instant Produce Public Company Limited noted that NRF aimed to turn the world into carbon-free through changes in the food system. NRF aspires to become the world's largest producer of plant-based protein and food. The company is going to build the world’s largest production network.  From international brands, the network connects to start-ups, to supermarkets, to sustainable transition to low-carbon food production. The NRF's priority is to manage its supply chain by conveying a clear policy from the CEO to the middle management and even the workers at the sourcing office.  This will help ensure that the products’ quality meet the company’s standards.
He also pointed out the main challenge in the food business: Transition from agricultural production based on chemicals to non-chemical and bio-farming. Doing so will reduce the emissions of greenhouse gas in itself.
"COVID-19 has transformed the supply chain.  Everyone wants to be healthy.  Everyone wants clean food and wants it "NOW."  To fulfill people’s needs will drive the sector to overhaul its business plan towards sustainability and transform companies to become those of the 22nd century," Mr. Dan said.
Mr. Ho Ren Hwa, CEO of Thai Wah Public Company Limited, said that sustainability is part of Thai Wah's core vision and its strategy on “Developing innovation and sustainability from farm to shelf.”  The implementation of its strategy with all stakeholders throughout the value chain fits under 4 pillars: Farm, Factory, Family, and Food.
Thai Wah is about to launch a new product this year: innovative and eco-friendly packaging.  It is made of biodegradable plastic from tapioca starch, which, in addition to being 100% biodegradable, non-toxic and harmless, can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Thai Wah will be Thailand's first pioneer of tapioca biodegradable plastic and aims to become one of the leading regional bioplastic manufacturers as part of its organization's long-term reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The company currently reviews the organization's emissions report, which is expected to be completed by the second half of this year.
Thai Wah works with various partners, from research institutions, leading universities, and startups to develop prototypes of products that cater to customers as well as create economic values to society and the environment.  "Sustainability cannot be created by one person but must be done through collaboration of all parties, both inside and outside the organization.  Such collaboration will contribute towards innovation in no time, and of course, it is much better than working alone." Mr. Ho Ren Hwa concluded.
Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO), a public organization under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, is responsible for supporting the reduction efforts of greenhouse gas emissions in Thailand.  According to Mr. Kiatchai Maitriwong, Executive Director of TGO who also participated in the Leaders Summit, the TGO data indicated that companies in Thailand even further reduced their emissions to help alleviate climate change despite the COVID-19 pandemic.  In 2020, 193 companies received carbon footprint certifications.  Many companies have also undertaken projects to compensate for their carbon emissions.  TGO collaborates with GCNT in technical areas to help companies set goals, audit and certify their emission reductions based on international standards.
Ms. Thanyaporn concluded, "Global Compact Network Thailand, in line with the UN Global Compact in New York, strongly encourages Thai businesses to seriously consider setting significant and measurable scientific targets in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  We all should take this as a new business opportunity.  Global Compact Network Thailand will support Thai businesses in their efforts while driving the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.”
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/131814-global-compact-thailand-joins-forces-ceos-elevate-business-plan-setting-targets-reduce




Date: 08 June 2021
Title: UN partners with depa to launch ‘Decade of Action, Decade of Innovation’
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
08 June 2021
The United Nations Thailand (UN Thailand), in partnership with the Department of Digital Economy Promotion Agency (depa), has launched ‘Decade of Action, Decade of Innovation’, a campaign that promotes the use of technological and innovative solutions to reach the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which are critical to the future development of the world.
Bangkok, Thailand – 8 June, 2021: The United Nations Thailand (UN Thailand), in partnership with the Department of Digital Economy Promotion Agency (depa), has launched ‘Decade of Action, Decade of Innovation’, a campaign that promotes the use of technological and innovative solutions to reach the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which are critical to the future development of the world.
The SDGs are a collection of 17 interlinked Global Goals designed as a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. They recognize that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth – all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests.
In country, the UN’s work is contributing towards the achievement of the SDGs and in alignment with the draft 13th NESDP which prioritizes transformation towards a high-value sustainable Thailand. UN Thailand is partnering with depa during this campaign with the belief that digital technology has the power to reduce inequality, produce innovative urban living solutions, and create opportunities for individuals and organisations to prosper in the digital economy. depa will provide localized knowledge and expert input on topics as diverse as e-learning, e-agriculture and digital transformation for SMEs to support awareness of the Global Goals and inspire people from all walks of life to innovate and play their part in solving the world’s future development needs.
“Achieving the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs is an ambitious and yet vital undertaking which requires all sectors of society to come together, including government, private sector and civil society, media, youth, academia, and other development partners, to deliver on these goals. As innovation plays such a crucial part in achieving the Global Goals, our partnership with depa to promote technological and innovative solutions is key to raising the awareness of the SDGs themselves,” said Gita Sabharwal, the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand.
“This decade has already given us many challenges and it’s more important than ever that we embrace technology to find solutions to our challenges. Over the past year we have seen how going digital has been a savior to many businesses, and we now have to expand and accelerate adoption and innovation to spread these benefits to all corners of the country. By the end of the next decade, growth, productivity gains, and human development will be determined by levels of integration into the digital economy, and it’s important that no-one is left behind,” added Asst. Prof. Dr.Nuttapon Nimmanphatcharin, President/CEO, Digital Economy Promotion Agency (depa).
The campaign has four broad themes based on the 17 global goals: People, Planet, Prosperity and Partnerships.
‘People’ looks into how we are affected by an ever-changing world and how technology can contribute to better health and well-being, as well as discovering how we can close the connectivity gap and reduce inequalities that may be amplified by lack of access to technology. E-learning and e-literacy to support lifelong learning will also be highlighted as ways in which we can close the digital divide and create an inclusive digital society.
‘Planet’ focuses on topics such as climate action and responsible consumption, and how we can leverage digital technology and innovation to make cities in Thailand sustainable, with a focus on the environment. From looking at how we transform the way we build and manage our urban spaces, to improving public transport, creating green public spaces, and improving urban planning and management in participatory and inclusive ways.
‘Prosperity’ tackles the issues faced by many industries and businesses in Thailand as it transforms into a digital-led economy. This means including all groups in society, particularly those that provide the backbone of the Thai economy, such as tourism and agriculture. Finding out how sustainable tourism can be created post-pandemic, and how digital transformation applies to agriculture will be just as important as developing further growth of e-commerce and digitizing the workplace.
‘Partnerships’ recognizes the importance of diverse groups working together to achieve shared goals, and aims to illustrate that when different types of people, businesses and organizations collaborate the results exceed expectations. The ongoing pandemic has countless examples of how public and private sectors have aligned in their efforts to serve the whole community.
The campaign, which runs until the end of July, aims to increase awareness about the SDGs in Thailand and inspire people to think about how they can contribute to their community and Thai society to address current and future issues. Throughout the campaign Facebook Live events will be held to discuss the key challenges faced under each theme, and passionate influencers who are already taking action will post on their social media channels using #SDGs.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/131996-un-partners-depa-launch-%E2%80%98decade-action-decade-innovation%E2%80%99




Date: 26 October 2020
Title: The UN in Thailand organized the UN 75th anniversary commemoration to draw attention to the power of innovation and partnerships, especially among younger generations, in building a better future post COVID-19
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
26 October 2020
On October 26, the United Nations in Thailand organized the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the United Nations at the United Nations Conference Centre to draw attention to the power of innovation and partnerships, especially among younger generations, in building a better future post COVID-19.
The United Nations is marking its 75th anniversary at a time of great disruption for the world, compounded by an unprecedented global health crisis with severe economic and social impacts.
On October 26, the United Nations in Thailand organized the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the United Nations at the United Nations Conference Centre to draw attention to the power of innovation and partnerships, especially among younger generations, in building a better future post COVID-19.
United Nations Secretary-General Mr Antonio Guterres in a special video message stressed the importance of international solidarity during the pandemic. “We face colossal challenges. With global solidarity and cooperation, we can overcome them. That is what the United Nations is all about. On this anniversary, I ask people everywhere to join together. The United Nations not only stands with you; the United Nations belong to you and is you: we the peoples,” said Guterres. s
In January 2020, the United Nations launched the UN75 initiative. Dubbed the world’s largest conversation, thousands of people shared their hopes and fears for the future, as well as their expectations of international cooperation and of the UN in particular. When asked where we should be in 25 years, most responses focused on human rights, environmental protection, tackling inequalities and better access to education. Respondents also cited climate change and environmental issues as the most influential trends for the future.
“We know that youth engagement and leadership is absolutely essential for the future we want and the UN we need. We need to redouble our efforts in youth co-labs, find new ways to reach out to young people, and engage with them to find solutions to today’s development challenges. Most importantly, we need to listen to their voices and build partnerships to take meaningful action on the Sustainable Development Goals,” highlighted the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand Gita Sabharwal.
Ms Armida S. Alisjahbana, Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations and Executive Secretary of UN ESCAP and H.E. Don Pramudwinai, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Thailand also delivered their welcoming remarks to the participants.
“History teaches that we are more effective and relevant if we empower people to support the societal transformation that we aspire together. Accelerating progress towards the 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement, the Sendai Framework, and other internationally agreed development goals, is possible only through an enhanced multilateral cooperation and development partnership,” said United Nations Under-Secretary-General and Executive Secretary of ESCAP Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana.
“Let us recommit to common ideals as well as the future promise of concrete actions. Let us assert ownership of a multilateral institution that is responsive and fit for the purpose so as to allow us to face upcoming uncertainties with confidence. Meanwhile, we the people should keep on strongly our partnership for peace and prosperity for the good of our planet,” underscored Thailand Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister H.E. Mr Don Pramudwinai in his keynote remarks.
Several dignitaries and eminent persons also shared messages reflecting on the organisation’s 75-year journey and the way forward. They included Prime Minister of Tuvalu Hon. Mr Kausea Natano, Kazakhstan Foreign Minister H.E. Mr Mukhtar Tleuberdi, Maldives Foreign Minister H. E. Mr Abdulla Shahid, Nepal Foreign Minister H.E. Mr Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, Republic of Korea Foreign Minister H. E. Ms Kang Kyung-wha, Russian Ambassador to Thailand HE Mr Evgeny Tomikhin, Chairperson of China Disabled Persons’ Federation HE Ms Haidi Zhang, Fung Group Senior Advisor Ms Barbara Meynert, former Pacific Community Director General Dr Collin Tukuitonga, Asia Director of the Action Group on Erosion, Technology and Concentration Ms Elenita Dano, Special Adviser to the UN Secretary-General Mr Fabrizio Hochschild and 75-year old former staff ESCAP member Ms Pudpong Ujjin.
Broadcast live on YouTube, the Asia-Pacific commemoration also featured the final part of ESCAP’s Regional Conversation Series on Building Back Better. Six young trailblazing innovators – Aeloi Technologies Co-Founder Ms Sonika Manandhar, Ricult Thailand Co-Founder and CEO Mr Aukrit Unahalekhaka, Women’s Entrepreneurship Development Fund Founder Ms Asel Kubanychbekova, Fusion Hub Founder Ms Sagufta Janif, MOTIONECO Founder and CEO Mr Shutong Liu and Indonesian Member of Parliament Ms Dyah Roro Esti Widya Putri - shared their journeys of innovation and how they have helped to bring about meaningful changes at the grassroot, national and international levels. From using new technologies to empower farmers, underprivileged women and microentrepreneurs to making clean energy more available and affordable, their work has left a clear footprint in the society. The discussions also brought to light what is needed for change to take root, from embracing sustainability in individual choices to policy support for social enterprises.

Watch the commemoration at www.bit.ly/WatchRC6

United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/99971-un-thailand-organized-un-75th-anniversary-commemoration-draw-attention-power-innovation-and




Date: 19 October 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: Demographic change in Thailand: How planners can prepare for the future
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
19 October 2020
With age comes wisdom. But collective wisdom in an aging society can be disruptive from an economic point of view.
With age comes wisdom. But collective wisdom in an aging society can be disruptive from an economic point of view. An aging society means fewer working people to support a larger base of older people. This leads to a shortage of qualified workers, making it more difficult for businesses to fill in-demand roles. An economy that cannot fill in-demand occupations faces adverse consequences, including declining productivity, higher labour costs, delayed business expansion and reduced international competitiveness. In some instances, a supply shortage may push up wages, thereby causing wage inflation and creating a vicious cycle of wage and price spiral.
Thailand is about to experience such a demographic change. According to the United Nation’s World Population Prospects 2019, the number of senior citizens will more than double from 9.0 million people or 13.0 percent of the total population in 2020 to 19.5 million people or 29.6 percent of the total population in 2050. This means that out of every three Thais, one will be a senior citizen.
However, Thailand is not alone. The UN forecasts that all regions around the world are on the aging trend with the developed countries facing the most severe problem with the share of population older than 65 years old to rise to around 26.9 percent by the year 2050. Yet, the share of older population in Thailand will be much higher in the next 30 years, compared to the world and Asia (excluding Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong and Korea)
Thailand’s rapid aging is particularly striking—and worrisome—for its income level. The median age in the population has increased rapidly to about 40. While lower than the current median age in Korea and Singapore, the latter two economies reached a similar median age at much, much higher levels of per capita income. Thailand is running out of workers at a time when the country has not yet acquired the skills, capital, and technology to really increase their productivity.
The aging has been driven largely by Thailand’s very low fertility. The total fertility rate, defined as the average number of children that would be born to a woman over her lifetime, in Thailand may drop from 1.53 (2015-2020) to only around 1.42 (2025-2030), closer to rich countries like Japan and Singapore and lower than comparators such as Malaysia. As a result, the number of children will cross with the number of older persons in 2025, reflecting the rapid decline in fertility that began in the mid-1980s in Thailand.
As population ages, growth in the working age population will drop off sharply. Economic growth often reflects demographics. Countries with a rapidly growing work force typically experience rapid economic growth, a phenomenon known as the demographic dividend[1]. In Thailand, however, the working-age population will witness a downward trend, from 43.2 million in 2020 to 36.5 million in 2040. Meanwhile, the ratio of working-age to senior people is expected to drop from 3.6 in 2020 to 1.8 in 2040, according to the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC).
Even so, the same demographic conditions that are producing an end to the demographic dividend may yield the longevity dividend[2].
Whether increased longevity is a burden or a dividend depends on the extent to which societies prepare for the challenges of ageing populations and plan for making use of the benefits. One of the most tangible benefits of living and working longer is the retention of skills and knowledge. Older workers have formal and technical skills which they have accumulated through long service. Employers in sectors which are facing labour shortages are seeking to acquire such skills through programmes such as mid-career apprenticeships. Older workers can also help younger ones find pathways into secure and well-paid work through mentoring and job sharing. Many older people are contributing to social welfare by taking on caring roles such as looking after grandchildren and elderly parents.
The longevity dividend, like most economic benefits, is attainable but needs to be worked for. Mobilising older workers’ experience, knowledge and skills will mean that rising life expectancy can be both socially and economically good.

The authors would like to thank Dr. Sweta Saxena for her editorial comments. The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the UN. Please address all correspondences to manop.udomkerdmongkol@un.org.

[1] This would be the case if proper investments are in place to create decent jobs and employment for young people with well-balanced gender equality.
[2] The longevity dividend is characterized by an accumulation of wealth and savings as older individuals save for consumption at old age and invest in their human capital, especially in health and education.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/96303-thailand-economic-focus-demographic-change-thailand-how-planners-can-prepare-future




Date: 14 October 2020
Title: The Ministry of Public Health and the World Health Organization Review Thailand’s COVID-19 Response
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
14 October 2020
Thailand has become one of the first countries in the world to review how its health system has so far responded to COVID-19. This process, known as a Joint Intra-Action Review, had two goals - to identify what went well during the first 6 months of the pandemic in Thailand, and to recommend how the Ministry of Public Health could improve its response to future COVID-19 outbreaks.
About the review
The Joint Intra-Action Review (IAR), conducted in July, was a collaboration between the Ministry of Public Health (MoPH) and the WHO to identify key strengths and vulnerabilities of Thailand’s COVID-19 response. It was done using a new WHO tool for country intra-action reviews.
The review report highlights important success factors and provides recommendations across nine important areas, or “pillars” of any country’s national response.
The Intra Action Review was conducted by sixteen reviewers from diverse backgrounds and included experts from WHO and other UN Agencies, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and academia. The reviewers were independent; none were directly involved in the MoPH response.
Between July 20-24, the reviewers interviewed 96 Thai policy makers, technical experts and responders to gather information and insight. They then made their recommendations based on consensus.
The IAR highlights some of the factors that have allowed Thailand to successfully control COVID-19 so far: these include strong leadership that responds to best scientific evidence; a strong underlying strong public health system, the countries previous experience with other important outbreaks, and a strong collaboration with the academic and private sectors.
The reviewers also agreed on recommendations about what could be improved in the Ministry of Health’s response. The most important are provide in the background below.
”The review’s recommendations focus on enhancing coordination, improving surveillance and data systems for COVID-19, and strengthening and protecting the health workforce. Addressing these recommendations quickly will ensure an even more effective response to future waves of COVID-19 in Thailand,” said Dr Daniel Kertesz, WHO Representative to Thailand
While the primary intention of the IAR was to strengthen Thailand’s national COVID-19 response, for other countries, the findings offer useful information to support their efforts to control the pandemic.
“This review is not only important for the country, but for the WHO South-East Asia Region and beyond, as countries across the world are learning while responding to the pandemic” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia
Noting the review’s results, H.E. Anutin Charnvirakul, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health added, “I’d like to ask everyone to remain vigilant and practice the basic measures recommended by the Ministry of Public Health, whether it is wearing a mask in public places, keeping a distance, avoiding crowded or closed spaces where possible, washing hands regularly, and always registering on “Thai Chana” every time they visit places.”
Going forward, the Thailand MOPH and WHO Thailand will work together with partners to implement the key recommendations from the IAR.
Background: Key Findings
The Intra-Action Review highlighted factors that contributed to successful management of the pandemic in Thailand
The Intra-Action Review also made recommendations to strengthen Thailand’s response to COVID-19. There were 25 recommendations overall – some of the most important include:
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/95726-ministry-public-health-and-world-health-organization-review-thailand%E2%80%99s-covid-19-response




Date: 22 September 2020
Title: Vulnerable youth in Thailand falling behind in all key social and economic dimensions due to COVID-19
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
22 September 2020
A series of six surveys which gathered the voices of 9,000 youth across Thailand, including more than 2,300 youth from vulnerable groups, were conducted by the UN Sub-group on Young People. The surveys underscore that during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown many are falling behind in terms of access to jobs, social support, healthcare and education. If no urgent action is taken, COVID-19 will continue to reverse Thailand’s progress in developing its youth and a sustainable future under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Among 1,000 youth from ethnic minority communities who took part in the surveys, about 80 per cent reported that they and their family received no social support during the lockdown, and less than 10 per cent had access to a device for online learning. Almost all youth with disabilities reported lacking learning devices at home. Youth from the three southernmost provinces faced a two-time and four-time increase in unemployment during the pandemic and lockdown, respectively. Moreover, about 41 per cent of the respondents reported that they felt anxious 3-4 days a week.
According to the survey results, 42 per cent of teenage mothers were unable to access healthcare services during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, and 36 per cent were unable to access child healthcare services. During this time, about 39 per cent of LGBTQ youth respondents lacked access to sexual and reproductive health services, such as sex counselling and STI prevention and treatment. About half of the respondents were sexually active during the COVID-19 lockdown, and access to contraception was among their top sexual and reproductive health concerns.
The pandemic has worsened inequality, creating more barriers to the development of a young generation. The impact of COVID-19 on youth’s access to education, sexual and reproductive health services and employment threatens to disrupt the Sustainable Development Goals progress, particularly in reducing poverty, promoting good health and well-being and ensuring quality education.
Gita Sabharwal, the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, said “The series of six surveys by the UN Sub-group of young people very well capture the challenges and real needs of young people including vulnerable groups during this pandemic. The results of the surveys echo what we know already: the pandemic is hitting the poorest and most vulnerable people the hardest. If not addressed properly, a new generation of inequalities could emerge, leaving more people even further behind. This is the time for Thailand to recover better, emerge stronger and more equitable than before."
“More than 9,000 young people have made their voices heard through the surveys. The results offer a grim insight into how COVID-19 has accentuated inequities, and these findings should be cause for concern to us all,” said Thomas Davin, UNICEF Representative for Thailand. “While this global pandemic has affected everyone, the already vulnerable and most marginalized are bearing the heaviest brunt. The pandemic has destroyed job prospects, training, as well as education opportunities for many young people. It has also negatively affected their mental wellbeing. We hope that the results of these surveys will help garner momentum for the Government, UN agencies, civil society, the private sector and the young people themselves to come together to reimagine the future of young people in Thailand post COVID-19.”
“The far-reaching impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown on all youth shows the urgency for Thailand to invest more in the human capital development of all youth and ensure that their rights are protected, including sexual and reproductive health rights, so that all can develop to their full potential and contribute to the sustainable development of Thailand in the future,” said Wassana Im-em, Head of Office at UNFPA Thailand.
The six surveys were conducted between March-July 2020 to assess the impact of COVID-19 on youth, including youth from ethnic minority and stateless groups, young mothers, youth with disabilities, youth from the three southernmost provinces and LGBTQ youth in Thailand. The surveys were conducted online, and therefore they mainly capture the voices of young people who have access to the internet. Youth with disabilities took part in the surveys with assistance. The surveys were conducted under an initiative by the UN Sub-group on Young People chaired by UNFPA and UNICEF together with UN Women, UNDP, UNAIDS, ILO, IOM, UNHCR and UNV.
It is hoped that the results of the surveys will inform policy discussions in all sectors, including through youth advocates and networks, as well as the UN Sub-group members to ensure that youth, especially from the vulnerable groups, are not left behind.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/91960-vulnerable-youth-thailand-falling-behind-all-key-social-and-economic-dimensions-due-covid-19




Date: 10 September 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: Building a more equal and sustainable Thailand after COVID-19: A UN perspective
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
10 September 2020
It is undeniable that COVID-19 has put Thailand and the rest of the world in an unprecedented difficult situation. Now is also the time, however, for Thailand to reorient its course of development – an opportunity for the country to emerge stronger and more equitable than before.
Before COVID-19, Thailand achieved a Human Development Index (HDI) of 0.765, according to UNDP’s 2019 Human Development Report. Thailand is an emerging market with the highest progress in the world from 2013 to 2018, up by 12 ranks, reflecting continued improvements in life expectancy at birth, years of schooling and income per capita.
Nevertheless, inequality looms large, hindering the country’s progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Accounting for inequality, Thailand’s HDI declines by 16.9 per cent to 0.635. At the same time, the wealth gap remains significant. A 2016 study from Thammasat University concluded that 80 per cent of the land is owned by the richest 5 per cent, while Credit Suisse’s Global Wealth Report showed that more than two-thirds of the country’s assets is controlled by the richest 1 per cent. On top of this, inequality in Thailand, like in many countries, has been exacerbated by climate change and technological transformation. Increasing incidents of floods and droughts have destroyed crops and depressed the income of farmers, while looming disruptions in various industries have led to factories shutting down and workers losing their jobs.
In most parts of Southeast Asia, economic growth is a major contributor to poverty alleviation. However, inequality remains high as indicated by the World Bank’s GINI index, a measure in which 0 is perfect equality and 100 is perfect inequality. Across the ASEAN membership, the Philippines has a GINI index value of 44.4, making it a country with the widest income gap in the region. Malaysia comes in second at 41.0, followed by Indonesia at 39.0 on the GINI index. In 2018, Thailand's GINI index stood at 36.4, or the fourth in a ranking of income inequality in ASEAN. In terms of the GINI coefficient, Thailand is better than China (38.5) and India (37.8). Moreover, Thailand’s income gap has improved over time, as the GINI index dropped to 36.4 in 2018 from 47.9 in 1992.
On the heels of these developments came COVID-19 – the worst pandemic in over a century. Despite Thailand’s success in controlling the outbreak, it has been severely hit by a sharp decline in global trade and the sudden stop in air traffic, as exports of goods and services account for about 70 per cent of the country’s GDP with international tourism contributing 12 to 15 per cent to GDP. Consequently, Thailand’s GDP in the second quarter of 2020 declined by 12.2 per cent, the deepest contraction since the 1997 Asian financial crisis.
The pandemic is hitting the poorest and most vulnerable people the hardest. The COVID-19 Socio-Economic Impact Assessment commissioned by UNDP and UNICEF in partnership with the UN Country Team reveals that unemployment rate would hit 3.1 per cent in 2020 – more than twice the usual rate – while women’s unemployment would rise to 4.5 per cent as many are employed in the worst-hit sectors such as tourism. Among those severely affected are informal workers, which account for more than half of the labour force, and vulnerable populations such as people with disabilities, LGBTI people and ethnic community members who have lower access to job opportunities and face difficulties in accessing government assistance. If not addressed, a new generation of inequalities could emerge, leaving more people even further behind.
At this juncture, policy-makers and partners have realized the need to use this crisis as an opportunity to rethink the development model of Thailand in view of achieving the SDGs. In addition to the immediate relief package, authorities aim to emphasize local-level economic rehabilitation, target job creation, and continue supporting sustainable sectors such as the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) economy – an initiative started before COVID-19. Such initiatives are welcome, and more steps need to be taken to transition towards an inclusive, sustainable growth path. UNDP, along with the rest of the UN system, has supported the national COVID-19 response in the following four areas to prepare for, respond to and recover from this pandemic while safeguarding progress towards the SDGs.
First and foremost, the “leave no one behind” principle should be at the heart of the crisis response and recovery policies. This entails building resilience in the social protection system and enhancing economic empowerment to enable people, particularly those who are marginalized and impoverished during the pandemic, to thrive rather than just survive in the face of global disruptions.
UNDP Thailand, as part of its COVID-19 crisis response, UNDP’s Offer 2.0, has conducted programmes targeting at-risk communities, such as improving food security among ethnic groups and providing safety training and equipment for barbers and hairdressers. It also plays an active role in supporting businesses to conduct human rights due diligence in their operations to promote more equitable job opportunities. In addition, UNDP, at the request of the National Economic and Social Development Council, will examine the impact of a 400-billion-baht economic rehabilitation package, not just in terms of job creation but also the wider goals of economic recovery and transformation towards the SDGs.
Second, with Thailand’s rich biodiversity as an asset for local communities, models such as eco-tourism and eco-friendly enterprises can be solutions to promote both environmental conservation and equality.  In this aspect, UNDP has conducted programmes such as providing biodiversity-protection jobs for communities in buffer zones of protected areas and cash-for-work initiatives for boat owners in Koh Tao Island to reduce marine debris.
Third, harness technological disruptions to foster equality. In this respect, UNDP, together with other public and private development actors, has conducted hackathons, bringing youth together to form innovative solutions to address the socioeconomic impacts of COVID-19. In parallel, UNDP is providing support to the government in capacity enhancement using digital tools and platforms.
Finally, it is necessary for Thailand to ensure sufficient resources to support national development priorities towards inclusive and sustainable growth path. Given that the long-term impact of the pandemic implies a decline in public resources, it is now more important than ever to balance efficiency savings with protection of fundamental services – including health and social protection.  As part of its offer, UNDP supports the analysis of financing gaps, which will inform public and private financing policies – from realigning tax and budgets to utilizing alternative sources of funding. To foster a green recovery, UNDP is also supporting the preparation of a financing strategy for the 2023-2026 National Adaptation Plan.
Although the COVID-19 pandemic poses unprecedented challenges, Thailand still has an opportunity to come out of crisis as a stronger, more resilient country that leaves no one behind. UNDP, together with the entire UN system, is committed to continue support to help decision-makers navigate through the current crisis. All citizens – now and in the future – should have a fair and dignified lot in life, powered by technology, shielded from pandemics and other disasters, and protected from an increasingly unforgiving climate.

The authors would like to thank Dr Sweta Saxena for her editorial comments. The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the UN. Please address all correspondences to manop.udomkerdmongkol@un.org.


United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/90303-thailand-economic-focus-building-more-equal-and-sustainable-thailand-after-covid-19-un




Date: 31 August 2020
Title: Global Compact Network Thailand Unites Public-Private Partnership of the Declaration of Commitment to lead the sustainable business through members' sustainable investment of 998 projects worth over THB 1.2 Trillion by 2030
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
31 August 2020
Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the ceremony of “GCNT FORUM 2020: Thailand Business Leadership for SDGs” organized by Global Compact Network Thailand in partnership with the United Nations Team in Thailand and Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (TCEB) at United Nations Conference Center. The high-level leaders of GCNT’s members have united to recover Thailand’s economy from COVID-19 and lead Thailand to strengthening and sustainability growth
The prime minister delivered the keynote address entitled “Leadership in Crisis Management: Experiences from COVID-19”. He emphasized the importance of sustainable development, that “Thailand is fortunate to have the Sufficiency Economic Philosophy as guidance in national development aligns with the Sustainable Development. The principles focus on ‘Human Development’ and ‘Human Security’ which building immunity to the economy, social and environmental changes. Today, all sectors need cooperation to ‘Team Thailand’ as we and the world have an obvious goal ahead in achieving the ‘Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs)’ by 2030. Even though we have limited time, but I believe in the nation and Thai citizens, if we are uniting, it will lead us to success.  I have appreciated the private sector in building awareness and collaborating to achieve SDGs, particularly, Global Compact Network Thailand, which collective the cooperation from all sectors to drive the nation forward and collaborate with international communities.
Ms Gita Sabharwal, United Nations Resident Coordinator – UNRC in Thailand, said “We are grateful to the Global Compact Network in Thailand for its highest commitment and aspirations towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Today, I offer three areas for reflection. First, forging robust partnerships with a shared responsibility for advancing the SDGs; second, building back better for a greener and more equitable new normal; and third, ensuring no one is left behind as the country moves forward. In the year 2020, we enter a decade of action that calls upon us to take concrete Partnerships, premised on the principles of collaboration and shared responsibility are imperative for sustainable development. We believes  that the private sector  can play a central role in making the SDGs a reality. As business leaders,. The private sector is certainly generating jobs – but it is also leveraging influence to find solutions to the development challenges of today.”
Mr Suphachai Chearavanont, President of the GCNT, said, “Currently,  GCNT encloses members nearly 60 of the leading corporation and continues increasingly. Considering of company value of GCNT’s members reached approximately 4.2 trillion Baht, reflecting GCNT’s potential in steering the economy and fostering changes sustainably both Thailand and other countries where our members are investing in. Especially amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the Secretary-General of UN has called everyone put their efforts in the ‘Decade of Action’, which will be different from what we had done before the outbreak for helping us recover better. Today,  I would like to encourage all corporations to overcome humanity's challenges that we are facing for the survival of people and natural resources, and stepping to achieve the SDGs together.”
Meanwhile, GCNT members has demonstrate their ambitious by declaration of commitment to apply the sustainable development principle into their core business strategy to drive its growth, and recover economy for Thailand and Asia to move forward to sustainable way. The commitment of sustainable investment to achieve SDGs by 2030 through 998 projects worth over 1.2 trillion Baht, for example, Indorama Ventures, Charoen Pokphand Group, PTT Group, Pranda Group, etc.
Mr Aloke Lohia, Group CEO of Indorama Ventures, as a GCNT member, said “The UN SDGs and Sufficiency Economy Principles are one of our key strategies, it is a balance between efficiency and resiliency – to do business with a focus on long-term value creation rather than short-term gains. IVL has operate our sustainable business through a circular economy concept including recycling to reduce plastic waste and converted it to create value added by recycling. We also set target to recycle 750,000 tons of post-consumer PET by 2025 and are committed to investing US$ 1 billion. Additionally, we hereby pledge that by 2030, we shall collectively invest in Thailand a total of Baht 1 billion, in approximate 45 projects and initiatives that directly support achieving the SDGs and commit to embedding the SDGs into the core of our business strategies and activities. We believe that our collective commitment and joint synergies to drive sustainable growth and economic recovery will propel Thailand towards a more sustainable path – now and for future generations.”
“GCNT FORUM 2020: Thailand Business Leadership for SDGs” held at the United Nations Conference Center align with formal and sustainable event of  Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (TCEB) and the United Nations to celebrate of both the 20th anniversary of the UNGC and the 75th anniversary of the United Nations. Participants are from the sustainability leaders, representatives of the UN agencies in Thailand, UN Global Compact, government agencies, the business sector, and civil society organizations together with GCNT, as Thailand’s largest sustainability network. They will also adhere to the UNGC’s 10 Universal Principles, which are divided into four areas: human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption while attempting to achieve the SDGs by 2030.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/90764-global-compact-network-thailand-unites-public-private-partnership-declaration-commitment-lead




Date: 28 August 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: Additional THB 50 investment per person per day to help reach SDGs
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
28 August 2020
Five years after signing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Thailand has made significant efforts in taking actions to achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDG Report 2020 showed that, while advances have been made in some areas, monumental challenges remain.
Five years after signing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Thailand has made significant efforts in taking actions to achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs Report 2020 showed that, while advances have been made in some areas, monumental challenges remain.
According to the Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) and Bertelsmann Stiftung, Thailand ranked 41st out of 166 countries surveyed on development progress relating to the SDGs. Thailand was top among ASEAN countries. The progress of Thailand in the SDGs helps improve the country’s competitiveness.
Thailand’s performance is most outstanding in the areas of poverty reduction, clean water and sanitation, decent work and economic growth, and industry, innovation and infrastructure. However, Thailand has a big job ahead to promote investments in the SDGs in order to tackle urgent and complex issues since the Report calls for major transformations in every country to address skills and jobs, healthcare, climate change, clean energy, biodiversity loss, land use, social protection and digital technology.
The government, NGOs, companies and investors are all required to help achieve the SDGs. Never before has the global community set out such an ambitious agenda – and the need to meet the challenges is urgent: ESCAP (2019) projects that meeting the SDGs will require around THB1.27 trillion (or US$40.9 billion) in additional annual investment from 2020 to 2030, equivalent to 50 baht per person per day. The estimate, which was undertaken before the COVID-19 pandemic, consists of investments in people (THB513.5 billion), prosperity (THB426.1 billion) and planet (THB327.8 billion).
Consequently, Thailand should roughly double its current investment levels in the SDGs [1] with an additional 50 baht per person per day to help reach the Goals. While government expenditure will contribute, new flows of private capital will be key either through new allocations or by re-routing existing capital flows. To unlock this opportunity, it will be critical for investors to re-orient their investment flows towards the new innovative products and services focused on finding solutions to achieve the SDGs including low-carbon infrastructure, clean energy, green bonds, green real estate and sustainable forestry and agriculture.
As Thailand strives to deal with the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the country ultimately must seek to turn the crisis into an opportunity and ramp up actions necessary to achieve the Goals. The spirit of solidarity, quick and robust action to defeat the virus should be brought to bear on the implementation of the SDGs. Thailand should accelerate and deepen the efforts during this Decade of Action to recover better and build a healthier, safer, fairer and a more prosperous country, so necessary in avoiding future pandemics.
[1] In recent years, Thailand’s investments in the SDGs were around 10-15% of GDP.
The author would like to thank Dr Sweta Saxena for her editorial comments and Jeong-Dae Lee and Kiatkanid Pongpanich for their technical supports. The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the author and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the UN. Please address all correspondences to manop.udomkerdmongkol@un.org.

United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/88956-thailand-economic-focus-additional-thb-50-investment-person-day-help-reach-sdgs




Date: 17 August 2020
Title: Thai parliament and UNDP to promote sustainable development goals together
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
17 August 2020
The Secretariat of the House of Representatives of Thailand and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to empower parliamentarians and parliamentary staff members to play a significant role in implementing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Thailand, to achieve the Agenda 2030.
The Secretariat of the House of Representatives of Thailand and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to empower parliamentarians and parliamentary staff members to play a significant role in implementing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Thailand, to achieve the Agenda 2030.
The MoU was signed between Mr Sorasak Pienvej, Secretary General, for the Secretariat of the House of Representatives and Mr Renaud Meyer, Resident Representative, for UNDP at an official event organized in the Parliament Building. The MoU will encourage the two bodies to cooperate not only to enhance the knowledge and capacities of the parliamentarians and parliamentary staff members around SDGs, but also promote an exchange of knowledge by facilitating interactions between the House of Representatives and other development actors on issues related to the SDGs.
The event included the presence of Mr Pakpoom Mingmitr, Chief of Secretary - General of the House of Representatives Division Acting the office of the ASEAN Community Center who offered his opening remarks. He highlighted that, “The cooperation between the two organisations will enhance the knowledge and competency of the parliamentarians and parliamentary staff members to drive the Thai Parliament to institutionalize the Sustainable Development Goals.”
Moreover, Ms Gita Sabharwal, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Thailand, also offered her congratulatory message at the event. Speaking on the importance of the MoU, she expressed, “Today’s signing ceremony institutionalizes an important partnership between the Parliament of Thailand and UNDP, creating an avenue for parliamentarians and parliamentary staff members to play a significant role in the advancement of the Sustainable Development Goals. This is critical today as we recover from the COVID19 pandemic.  I would like to commend and congratulate the Secretary General of the Secretariat of the House of Representatives of Thailand, in maximizing the contribution of the Parliament, in a whole-of-government approach to advancing the SDGs.”
Mr Sorasak Pienvej reaffirmed Thailand’s commitment towards the SDGs. He expressed hope that, “The cooperation will promote the Parliament as the people's representative to develop working procedures resulting from the exchange of information, knowledge, techniques, and international practices with UNDP to support the work of the parliament in response to the needs of citizens.”
Mr Renaud Meyer, echoing the importance of the Agenda 2030 and the MoU that was signed, stated, “This MOU will be instrumental to ensure the objectives and values of Agenda 2030 and of the Global Goals are better reflected in the legislative and budgetary functions of the Parliament by working closely with the General Secretariat but also selected standing committees and strengthen technical capacities as needed. ”
After the signing of the MoU, the Resident Representative presented a handbook for the parliamentarians in the Thai language on the “Parliament’s Role in Implementing the Sustainable Development Goals” to the Secretary General at the event. The English version of the book was originally published by the Global Organization of Parliamentarians Against Corruption, UNDP, and the Islamic Development Bank. The Secretariat of the House of Representatives of Thailand and UNDP jointly translated the book into Thai and adapted it to the Thai parliamentary context. This book is designed as an easy to use resource that can help parliamentarians and parliamentary staff members play an effective role in implementing the SDGs. It introduces Agenda 2030 and also lists good practices and tools from around the world.
This initiative is geared towards the commitment to ensure that no one is left behind, while safeguarding the progress achieved towards the Sustainable Development Goals.


Originally published in UNDP Thailand
See more photos here
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/87807-thai-parliament-and-undp-promote-sustainable-development-goals-together




Date: 05 August 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: Q1 household debt at 80% of GDP, highest in 4 years
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
05 August 2020
Currently at 80.1% of GDP, Thailand’s household debt figure is among the highest in the region and is well above average for a country in the upper-middle income range. Together with its meteoric rise in the past few years, household debt has been a subject of much discussion.
So why would high and rising household debt be a problem? Put simply, if households cannot pay their debt, then it increases both financial and macroeconomic instability.
As a result, economic policy should adjust to having highly leveraged households in the Thai economy. First, economic buffers need to be carefully managed. With households not being able to leverage much further, fiscal space becomes the ultimate shock absorber for the economy. This means the remaining fiscal space must be carefully managed.
Second, monetary policy should carefully consider the risks of excessive household debt accumulation arising from an unusually long period of low interest rates. Additionally, macroprudential policy measures should be implemented in order to strengthen the effectiveness of overall supervisory framework, including moving towards consolidated supervision to ensure that all providers of consumer credit services are being supervised under the same set of highly prudential standard.
Third, there is room to decrease households’ downside risks. These risks are from, for example, medical care costs on health-related issues, debt burden from deceased family members, liabilities from accidents, or damages to properties from natural disasters. One way to help is to increase access to private insurance products already existing in the market. The government should step in to help where the market is missing.
Fourth, increase households’ awareness of their own financial situation. Today’s modern technology and the popularity of smartphones can provide households with real-time information of their balance sheet to make important financial decisions. These tools should be used to help with planning and budgeting, thereby increasing financial literacy.

The author is grateful to Dr. Sweta Saxena for her support and guidance. The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the author and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the United Nations. Please address all correspondences to manop.udomkerdmongkol@un.org.

United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/86380-thailand-economic-focus-q1-household-debt-80-gdp-highest-4-years




Date: 05 August 2020
Title: UN Secretary-General warns of education catastrophe, pointing to UNESCO estimate of 24 million learners at risk of dropping out
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
05 August 2020
UN Secretary-General António Guterres launched the Education in the time of COVID-19 and beyond Policy Brief warning that the pandemic has created the most severe disruption in the world’s education systems in history and is threatening a loss of learning that may stretch beyond one generation of students. School closures are also likely to erase decades of progress, according to the Policy Brief, which builds on UNESCO’s data and features recommendations on ways to avert the looming catastrophe.
UNESCO led the drafting of the Secretary-General’s Policy Brief which contains inputs from 15 sister organizations.
“We already faced a learning crisis before the pandemic,” said UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in a video statement to launch the Policy Brief. “Now we face a generational catastrophe that could waste untold human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities.”
The Brief calls for national authorities and the international community to come together to place education at the forefront of recovery agendas and protect investment in education. With this objective, UNESCO will convene a special session of the Global Education Meeting before the end of the year.
UNESCO data shows that nearly 1.6 billion learners in more than 190 countries, 94% of the world’s student population, were affected by the closure of educational institutions at the peak of the crisis, a figure that stands at 1 billion today. As many as 100 countries have yet to announce a date for schools to reopen.
The Policy Brief points to UNESCO’s projections whereby 24 million learners from pre-primary to tertiary education risk not finding their way back to their studies in 2020 following the COVID-19-induced closures. The largest share of learners at risk, 5.9 million, live in South and West Asia. Another 5.3 million students at risk are in sub-Saharan Africa. Both regions faced severe educational challenges even before the pandemic, which is likely to worsen their situation considerably.
According to UNESCO, tertiary education is likely to experience the highest dropout rate and a projected 3.5% decline in enrolment, resulting in 7.9 million fewer students. Pre-primary education is the second worst affected level with a projected 2.8% decline in enrolment, i.e. 5 million fewer children attending. According to these projections, 0.27% of primary and 1.48% of secondary education students, corresponding to 5.2 million girls and 5.7 million boys at both levels, risk dropping out of school.
“These findings emphasize the urgent need to ensure the continuity of learning for all in the face of this unprecedented crisis, in particular the most vulnerable,” says UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay.  “The Brief calls to protect investment in education at all levels, and warns that according to UNESCO estimates, the pandemic will increase the gap in funding needed to reach the internationally agreed 2030 Sustainable Development Goal on Education (SDG4) in low and lower-middle income countries by one third, from the already staggering shortfall of USD 148 billion.”
School closures do not only undermine education. They also hamper the provision of essential services to children and communities, including access to a balanced diet and parents’ ability to go to work. They also increase risks of violence against women and girls.
Preventing the learning crisis from becoming a generational catastrophe must become a top priority for world leaders and for stakeholders across the education community, says the brief, emphasizing education’s role in driving economic progress, sustainable development and lasting peace.
The Brief makes recommendations in four areas to mitigate the effects of the pandemic:
The UN Policy Brief is being launched alongside #SaveOurFuture, a multi-partner campaign led by ten entities, including UNESCO, to raise awareness of the global education emergency and urge increased investment to build better, more inclusive and resilient education systems for the future.


If you would rather not receive future communications from UNESCO, let us know by clicking here.
UNESCO, 7, place de Fontenoy, PARIS, NA FRANCE France
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/86382-un-secretary-general-warns-education-catastrophe-pointing-unesco-estimate-24-million-learners




Date: 21 July 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: tourism industry plummets amid COVID-19 pandemic
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
21 July 2020
For an economy whose staple is travel, Thailand’s tourism industry is taking a major hit amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Tourism is a major economic contributor to Thailand, with tourist receipts accounting for 11.5% of GDP in 2019, more than doubling from 5.2% in 2009. In addition, Chinese tourists account for the lion share of tourist arrivals, clocking 27.5% in 2019, followed by Malaysia (10.5%) and India (4.9%).
While the massive fiscal stimulus packages are surely welcomed by both corporates and individuals, tourism and its related industries such as hospitality, retail and transport will likely continue to drag on growth into the year ahead. According to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, tourist arrivals had fallen to zero in April and May 2020 given the incoming travel ban then. For 2020, the Bank of Thailand expects tourist arrivals to clock merely 8 million persons (down from a prior outlook of 15 million persons, or a fall of 80% y/y), compared to 39.8 million persons in 2019.
According to UNCTAD, Thailand is one of the most heavily affected countries and stands to lose approximately US$47 billion in GDP for 2020 due to the contraction in tourism. Skilled workers in the tourism sector are expected to lose around 12% of their wages. For unskilled labors, employment is projected to decline 17% if the tourism sector is stopped for 4 months in Thailand.
To cope with a fall in tourism demand in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, the Cabinet approved two stimulus packages worth THB22.4 billion to boost domestic tourism. Under the We Travel Together promotion worth THB20 billion, the government will subsidize 40% of domestic airfares for up to 1,000 baht per seat and 40% of hotel room rates for up to 3,000 baht per night. Additionally, the Moral Support promotion, worth THB2.4 billion, will help fund holidays for 1.2 million health officials and volunteers. The funding for the two packages comes from the 1.9 trillion-baht economic stimulus package intended to cushion the impacts on Thailand’s economy and the Thai people from the COVID-19 pandemic.
As the tourism stimulus measures will likely trigger spending across Thailand during the third quarter of 2020, many issues including improving human capital and investing in transport infrastructure need to be addressed to ensure sustainable competitiveness in the tourism sector.
Moreover, in reviving tourism, Thailand should pay attention to making it green so that it can preserve the natural biodiversity for longer. The government should issue essential policies to enhance green solutions in developing tourism technical facilities in line with specific conditions in each locality such as the application of natural energy, the use of friendly materials and waste and wastewater processing and treatment. In this vein, Bhutan provides a good example of high value, low impact tourism that can help transform the way people travel, emphasizing meaningful experiences that both enrich the individual traveler and help to safeguard cultural and natural heritage. This crisis is thus an opportunity to rethink tourism for the future.
The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the author and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the United Nations. Views expressed reflect the author’s judgment as at the date of this publication and are subject to change.

United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/53804-thailand-economic-focus-tourism-industry-plummets-amid-covid-19-pandemic




Date: 06 July 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: COVID-19 will likely lead to severe job loss, with impacts already evident in the first quarter
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
06 July 2020
A combination of the COVID-19 pandemic, the economic downturn and climatic patterns is widely undermining employment conditions in Thailand across all 3 sectors – services, manufacturing and agriculture.
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic was beginning to show signs of impact in the first quarter of 2020, as average working hours declined and more than 170,000 people in the formal sector filed for unemployment insurance. While significant uncertainty remains about the ultimate impact on the labor market, in late May 2020, the NESDC estimated that 8.4 million manufacturing and services jobs were at risk from COVID-19 in the second quarter and the third quarter of 2020 (2.5 in tourism, 1.5 in the industrial sector, and 4.4 in other services). This is in addition to 6 million farmers at risk from drought and water shortages.
Moreover, COVID-19 will increase Thailand’s working poverty as the volume of work measured in terms of hours worked falls along with declining economic activities. The loss of income among informal workers will push many below the poverty threshold. Therefore, the share of the working poor in Thailand is expected to increase from 4.7% to at least 11% of total employment this year according to the ILO’s study.
The Thai government has so far approved three fiscal stimulus packages to address the short-term challenges. The responses are primarily focused on supporting vulnerable households and firms, particularly workers in the informal sector and small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to cushion loss of incomes and avoid mass unemployment and bankruptcies.
However, the government should also take action to rebuild human capital for the future. In doing so, fixing the skills mismatch will be critical. Even before the pandemic hit, this was no simple exercise; it required an understanding of the implications of everything from education and training to social safety nets. But this knowledge is vital to craft national skills strategies that can meet future labor force challenges. And for Thailand, it could accelerate productivity growth and enhance the future-readiness of their human capital.
Boosting productivity and human capital, which is enshrined in Thailand 4.0, will strengthen the nation's industry for sustainable growth and economic value creation to pave Thailand’s way out of the middle-income trap. However, it is not everything; it is only a necessary but not a sufficient condition for success. Long-term improvements in Thailand’s economic well-being also require drastic economic, social and structural reforms - including but not limited to infrastructure investments, educational reforms, legal improvements especially with regard to property rights and regulatory burdens for businesses, as well as improvements in government efficiency and good governance. These all-round upgrading policies will ensure Thailand a safe, undisrupted trip on the road to prosperity over the years to come.
The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the author and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the United Nations. Views expressed reflect the author’s judgment as at the date of this publication and are subject to change.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/52117-thailand-economic-focus-covid-19-will-likely-lead-severe-job-loss-impacts-already-evident




Date: 26 June 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: Steepest price fall since the global financial crisis reflects huge drop in demand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
26 June 2020
Why are falling prices a concern when everyone likes the idea of good sales? It is because falling prices (i.e., deflation) can exacerbate an economic crisis and turn a recession into a full-blown depression. When prices fall and are expected to drop in the future, households and businesses choose to hold on to money rather than spend or invest. This leads to a drop in demand, which in turn forces businesses to cut production and sell off inventories at even lower prices. Businesses lay off workers and the unemployed have more difficulty finding work. Eventually, they default on debts, causing bankruptcies and credit and liquidity shortages known as a deflationary spiral.
Such impacts for the macroeconomy can be exacerbated by COVID-19. For instance, lockdowns have impacted the demand for goods and services. The fall in global oil prices and slower economic momentum seen from COVID-19 concerns was the key factor behind Thailand’s inflation environment. Indeed, in May 2020, Thailand’s consumer prices fell by 3.4% compared to a year ago, marking the deepest deflation print since July 2009 (-4.4% y/y). Excluding the more volatile prices of energy and raw food components, core inflation was flat in May, after logging 0.4% y/y in the previous month. The recent data shows that Thailand’s consumer prices fell by 1.0% in the first five months of 2020, the slowest inflation pace since 2015 over the same period. For 2020, the Commerce Ministry expects headline inflation to stay in the range of -1.0% to -0.2%.
This fall in prices is across the board. Transport and communication prices dropped 9.2% y/y mostly due to vehicles and vehicle operations while housing and furnishing prices declined 5.6% y/y.  Additionally, food prices fell 0.02% y/y, the first drop since June 2018, after a 1.0% rise in April mainly owing to eggs and dairy products. Other clusters such as textiles, wearing apparels and footwear (+0.1% y/y) and recreation and education (+0.4% y/y) rose marginally.

What are the policies to deal with deflation? Deflation is generally the result of low and falling aggregate demand. The basic prescription for preventing deflation is therefore straightforward, at least in principle: Use monetary and fiscal policy as needed to support aggregate spending. Since the pickup in severity of COVID-19 pandemic, the Bank of Thailand has implemented three rate cuts of 25 basis points in 2020 to provide some support to economic activity. Currently, the policy rate stands at a record low of 0.5%. Given the impending recession in 2020, May’s deflation print could be a very persuasive reason for the central bank to consider further accommodative measures. By acting more preemptively and more aggressively than usual in cutting rates, the central bank may be able to prevent the Thai economy from slipping into a deflationary spiral.
The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the author and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the United Nations. Views expressed reflect the author’s judgment as at the date of this publication and are subject to change.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/50921-thailand-economic-focus-steepest-price-fall-global-financial-crisis-reflects-huge-drop-demand




Date: 25 June 2020
Title: COVID-19 disrupts development progress in Thailand: UN report
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
25 June 2020
A UN report highlights the disruption from the pandemic on Thailand’s progress in reaching the Sustainable Development Goals: success will depend on the policies implemented now - during the crisis. This preliminary report highlights that Thailand’s GDP will be 5 per cent lower in 2025 than if the COVID-19 pandemic had not occurred.
The COVID-19 Economic Impact Assessment for Thailand suggests that unemployment among women would rise to 4.5 per cent, while unemployment in the general population would hit 3.1 per cent in 2020. Seasonal peaks will be higher, particularly among informal workers. The automotive and tourism sectors are expected to see sharp downturns, while agricultural production already suffering from the draught will further be affected by the pandemic. Other sectors of the economy such as healthcare, consumer goods and financial services appear to be less affected and Thailand’s prompt stimulus measures have already offset some of the effects of the pandemic.
Gita Sabharwal, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Thailand, said the pandemic could disrupt key efforts in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and undermine progress made over the past few years.
“COVID-19 is an unprecedented global health crisis, which is having major economic and social impacts in Thailand,” Ms. Sabharwal said. “Thailand’s fiscal stimulus packages focus on helping vulnerable people, while maintaining the health of economy through supporting businesses and creating jobs. However, one aspect that Thailand should consider including within the future policy is the environment as the performance and resilience of the Thai economy depend on the health of the natural environment and ecosystems. The UN system will continue to support Thailand in safeguarding progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and guiding the long-term resilient road to recovery.”
The report recognized the government’s quick response to the pandemic but said its stimulus package, which currently accounts for 15 per cent of GDP and is on par with other countries, needs to go further, particularly in refining the mix of measures in the stimulus package. The report advises that, in supporting GDP and employment, government consumption expenditure is likely to be the most effective measure, followed by cash handouts and direct support to the worst-off;  loans, liquidity schemes and tax cuts and deferrals for business; and interest rate cuts by the Bank of Thailand.
Professor Dr. Thosaporn Sirisumphand, Secretary General of the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC), stated that given the short-term and long-term repercussions of the COVID-19 outbreak on the Thai economy and society, the government prioritizes the assessment of the pandemic’s impact—an area that the NESDC has promptly responded through conducting initial analysis and surveys. “We thus support the UN’s work as a partner in this assessment, and the results will serve as an important input for policy delivery to secure Thailand’s sustainable recovery.”
The UNDP Resident Representative in Thailand, Renaud Meyer, said COVID-19 had impacted the country’s vulnerable populations the most.
“COVID hit the most vulnerable people the hardest, further highlighting existing inequalities,” Mr. Meyer said. “Vulnerable populations, such as people with disabilities, LGBTI and ethnic community members are severely affected. Women will be at higher risk of unemployment, as many are employed in worst-hit sectors such as tourism,” Mr. Meyer said. “Informal workers account for more than half of the labour force and they are also strongly impacted, as they do not qualify for social security or entitlements at workplaces, such as wage subsidies, paid leave or sick leave. This calls for well-targeted recovery measures.”
The UNICEF Representative for Thailand, Thomas Davin, said vulnerable families needed particular attention during the recovery period.
“As important as it is to ensure that businesses survive and succeed in this difficult time, it is equally important to make sure that vulnerable families, including those working in the informal sector are receiving direct support. Policy responses should also put in place forward-looking and long-term measures to strengthen social protection systems, so that no one will ever have to worry if they can put food on the table at the end of month.”
“There should also be further investment in human capital to upskill workforce, starting with young people. This will define the future success of Thailand’s economy.” Mr. Davin said.
Further analysis will provide an in-depth view of the social impact of the pandemic on poverty, food and nutrition, health, education, social protection, and protection from violence and abuse. The UN Thailand, in partnership with the National Economic and Social Development Council plans to release the findings in July 2020.
This is part of the series of the impact assessments of COVID-19 on Thailand, conducted by UN Thailand. Early this month, the impact assessment of COVID-19 on the Industrial Sector conducted by UNIDO and on employment and labour by ILO were released. Read all the reports

United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/50980-covid-19-disrupts-development-progress-thailand-un-report




Date: 23 June 2020
Title: Informal workers most affected by COVID-19: UN Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
23 June 2020
The study “COVID-19 Employment and labour market impact in Thailand”, released  recently, states that based on labour force survey data for the first quarter, workers in the informal sector are most affected due to their lack of income security and exclusion from comprehensive social protection measures. The loss of income among informal workers will push many over the poverty threshold (minimum income of $1.90 or about THB60 per day). As a result, the share of the working poor in Thailand is expected to increase from 4.7 per cent to at least 11 per cent of total employment this year.
Due to the pandemic, Thai workers will have an impact in the form of reduced working hours and wages or even complete job loss. According to the study, 6.6 to7.5 million workers in Thailand are expected to experience such disruption firsthand. Moreover, the number of hours worked in Thailand declined by nearly 6 per cent in the first quarter of the year, which is the equivalent to a loss of 2.2 million full-time jobs (assuming a 40 hour working week). The decrease is expected to increase to about 10 per cent in the second quarter, thus bringing the estimated loss to a full-time equivalent of 4 million jobs, according to the study by ILO.
The occupations that saw the greatest decrease are primarily low-skilled workers in agriculture and those doing clerical work including customer service. The most sizable increase in occupation over this period relates to health professionals, which increased by  nearly a fifth in comparison to the last year.
Graeme Buckley, Director of ILO Country Office for Thailand, Cambodia and Lao People's Democratic Republic, said “we still don’t know the full extent of livelihood loss yet. It will depend on the continuing evolution of the pandemic and on the effectiveness of the government’s measures in stimulating the economy, sustaining enterprises and protecting livelihoods.”
Gita Sabhrawal, the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, said “ILO’s study shows us that COVID-19 crisis hits the vulnerable population groups in Thailand particularly hard. To deal with labour disruptions and stimulate economic rebound, green climate friendly measures targeting SMEs will be amongst the best options.”
This is part of the series of the impact assessments of COVID-19, conducted by UN Thailand. Earlier this month, the impact assessment of COVID-19 on the Industrial Sector conducted by UNIDO was launched. The UN will launch its next assessment of the Socio-Economic Impact of COVID-19, produced by UNDP and UNICEF later this week.
Read the full report here.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/50833-informal-workers-most-affected-covid-19-un-thailand




Date: 16 June 2020
Title: Small, low-tech firms suffer the most during COVID: UN Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
16 June 2020
The impact assessment of COVID-19 on the Thai industrial sector, highlights that small-size and low-tech firms have suffered the most due to reduced orders and a resulting shortage of raw materials due to disruption of supply chain.
Reduced orders have led to a fall in revenue, which has compounded the shortage of cash flow, leaving small firms struggling. If containment measures are extended to a longer period, nearly half of the small size firms could be severely impacted. While concerned for employee well-being firms do not see laying off of employees as a primary coping measure. Cutting operational costs, accessing loans, and using technology are preferred options to deal with the immediate impact of the pandemic.
Deference of tax payments, reduction of social contributions and operational costs including rent and utility and improved loan terms are amongst the most preferred supportive measures from government.
“We believe that the most helpful recovery support is to immediately restart and stimulate demand for goods and services,” said Stein Hansen, Regional Director and Representative of UNIDO. “Moreover, we would like to recommend that the government invest in advanced technology, as the COVID-19 crisis is likely to result in the structural transformation of manufacturing, to a new normal. Whilst this new normal is still to be navigated, it appears most likely that it will be more digitized, more circular and more resilient.”
Gita Sabharwal, the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand, added that “the small and medium-sized businesses are the backbone of the Thai economy. Therefore, we need new and innovative ways to provide support in response to COVID-19, as this will save jobs and secure livelihoods. These include proactive consultations and coaching, providing incentives for productivity-enhancing investments, promoting digital adoption, and climate friendly technology to ensure competitiveness of SME’s.”
These findings are gathered from an online survey in collaboration with the Ministry of Industry, Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand and Small and Medium Enterprise Institute under the Federation of Thai Industries and UNIDO’s networks in Thailand.
This is part of the series of the impact assessments of COVID-19, conducted by UN Thailand. Two further assessments of the socio-economic impact of COVID-19, as well as the bearing on the labour market, will be launched in the later this month.
Read the full report here
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/50832-small-low-tech-firms-suffer-most-during-covid-un-thailand%C2%A0




Date: 08 June 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: Financial stimulus packages to combat COVID-19 and achieve SDGs
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
08 June 2020
COVID-19 is an unprecedented global health crisis, which is having major economic and social impacts in Thailand. Since the pickup in severity of the virus pandemic, the Bank of Thailand has implemented three rate cuts of 25 basis points in 2020 to provide some support to economic activity. Currently, the policy rate stands at a record low of 0.5%. The Ministry of Finance has also responded quickly to the virus outbreak by announcing three fiscal stimulus packages worth THB2.4 trillion (US$76.2 billion) or 15.0% of GDP (as of the end of April 2020) consisting of various measures for both households and businesses to tackle the negative impact brought about by COVID-19.
Such measures are targeted at those most at risk of losing their jobs or business in recognition of the fact that two thirds of the of the labor force work is in the informal sector. These include:
The breakdown of fiscal stimulus packages exhibits Thailand’s clear focus on helping vulnerable people, while maintaining the health of the Thai economy through supporting businesses and creating jobs. The fiscal stimulus will help counter overall unemployment to an extent through its focus on supporting SMEs, especially in tourism and its related businesses such as hospitality, trade, and transport (Goals 1 and 8). Social protection measures including unemployment benefits and cash handouts for informal workers are designed to help vulnerable people cope with adversity and secure lives, livelihoods, and the economy (Goals 1, 3 and 10). Allocating THB500 billion of soft loans to SMEs and THB400 billion for infrastructure investment will support a pathway to an inclusive and sustainable recovery that protects jobs and supports SMEs (Goals 8 and 9). These are largely in line with the people and prosperity aspects of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
One aspect that Thailand should consider including within the future policy is the planet. The performance and resilience of the Thai economy depend on the health of the natural environment and ecosystems. To build back better together, Thailand should not return to business-as-usual practices that put pressure on wildlife and biodiversity. Thailand should harness low-carbon investment opportunities to reboot the economy while reducing the greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution which jeopardize lives. It means pulling people out of poverty, creating more jobs, and reducing economic disparities. It will also help reduce the probability of future pandemics and broader environmental and climate change risks.

The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the author and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the United Nations. Views expressed reflect the author’s judgment as at the date of this publication and are subject to change.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/50919-thailand-economic-focus-financial-stimulus-packages-combat-covid-19-and-achieve-sdgs




Date: 05 June 2020
Title: Alex Rendell named UN Environment Programme Goodwill Ambassador for Thailand
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
05 June 2020
The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) today announced Alex Rendell as a National Goodwill Ambassador for Thailand.
Alex is an actor and co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Environmental Education Center (EEC), an organization that raises environmental awareness among children. Alex has long been a presence in Thai television and cinema, having got his start in front of the camera when he was only 4 years old. He has featured in numerous well-known sitcoms and dramas such as Kom-Fak (Brave Man Standing) and Keb-Pan-Din (The Good Citizen).
Rendell’s EEC uses nature as a classroom to educate young people about their connection with the environment and encourage them to protect it. His most recent initiative, Kod-pa-Kod-talay (Embrace Our Forests and Seas), is working across 11 Thai provinces to raise awareness in youth and local authorities on the connection between humans and nature.
“We are very pleased to have Alex join the UNEP family,” said Dechen Tsering, Regional Director for the UNEP’s Office for Asia and the Pacific. “He is a fantastic advocate for the planet as shown through his ongoing work with the EEC and his support to UNEP’s work over the years. Environmental challenges for the world, like climate change, plastic pollution and habitat loss are just as much challenges for Thailand.’
“As we work to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, Alex’s voice will be more important than ever to ensure that the environment is at the heart of our efforts to build back better,” she added.
“Thais have such a strong cultural connection with nature and we are blessed with abundant and valuable natural resources,” said Rendell. “We are starting to see a change in people’s awareness of protecting nature, and not a moment too soon. The more that people are conscious of our environmental impact, the closer we get to living sustainably and protecting our home. I believe that education is a powerful tool to empower people to make sound environmental decisions. I’m excited to work with UNEP to help increase environmental awareness here in Thailand.”
Rendell is UNEP’s first National Goodwill Ambassador for Thailand and will continue to work closely with youth and in media to help mobilize people protect the planet.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/52115-alex-rendell-named-un-environment-programme-goodwill-ambassador-thailand




Date: 29 May 2020
Title: #UnknownTogether: UN Thailand and Knowing Mind in collaboration with Facebook launch mental health support for Thai communities amid COVID-19 and beyond
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
29 May 2020
Today the United Nations (UN) in Thailand, the Thai mental health organisation Knowing Mind and the social change agency Love Frankie launched an online campaign, Unknown Together, to address growing concerns around mental health and the well-being of the local communities in Thailand as the country slowly emerges from the COVID-19 health crisis. Supported by Facebook Thailand, a wide array of mental health experts and practitioners as well as prominent social media influencers are joining forces to normalize mental health conversations and provide practical resources for the Thai public.
"At first glance, COVID-19 is a health crisis, but as its impacts have become apparent, we realise it has a tremendous effect on our mental health and well-being,” said Gita Sabharwal, the UN Resident Coordinator in Thailand. “This is due to a range of interconnected issues, from physical distancing, where people are kept away from their loved ones, to economic distress, misinformation and rumours that pan out on social media. With such growing psychosocial distress indicated amongst the population in Thailand, the UN is taking this initiative to ensure that the people of the country have ready access to resources, and someone to turn to, for psychosocial support. This initiative builds on the UN policy brief ‘COVID-19 and the Need for Action on Mental Health’ and we look forward to working with our partners to realize this in Thailand.
A recent study by the Department of Mental Health indicated that the stress levels of the Thai general public have risen rapidly due to COVID-19, with a 38% increase from March to April in the number of people who rated themselves as extremely stressed or highly stressed. The department received 600 calls on their hotline in March 2020 alone, compared to 20-40 calls in previous months.
“We are all living through challenging times with the COVID-19 pandemic impacting our lives in many ways, and for many of us it has been especially difficult. At Facebook, the well-being of the people who use our apps is incredibly important to us and something we work on everyday. This is why we team with local experts and international partners, such as Knowing Mind and the United Nations, to make sure our Thai community has access to resources and inspiration to support strong mental health. Through curation of expert-based content and involving leading Thai influencers, we aim to encourage people to engage in supportive, positive conversations about mental health and support one another through kindness and empathy so that we can all navigate these difficult times together - and come out more resilient,” explained Michael Bäk, Head of Public Policy - Facebook Thailand.
Unknown Together is a 10-week campaign developed by Love Frankie that explores the impact of COVID-19 on mental health, providing tools and resources for holistic self-care, as well as empowering Thai people to help communities around them. The aim of the campaign is to provide a carefully curated series of content, information and resources to promote resiliency, well-being and empathy. The content will be co-designed with a network of experts and partners including the Royal Thai Government’s Department of Mental Health.
Hosted weekly via Facebook Live, #UnknownTogether’s expert panel discussions will explore how COVID-19 has affected our mental health in our most essential relationships: to work, finances, studies, society and one another. Panel discussions will include practicing psychiatrists and psychologists such as Varoth Chotpitayasunondh, M.D., PhD., psychiatrist and spokesperson of the Department of Mental Health and Dr. Soree Pokaeo, Director of Thai Counseling Psychology Association.
Joining the experts in creating an engaging discourse around mental health are influencers and opinion leaders with a passion for mental health who will be helping to craft and amplify messages of self-care, empathy, and resilience through their own unique voice and content. Through a video “challenge”, performance artist Pan Pan Nakprasert aka Pangina Heals invites us to re-examine the labels we assign to one another, ultimately encouraging empathy in our closest relationships, particularly between parent and child. For her online session, Dujdao Vadhanapakorn, movement therapist and host of the highly subscribed self-therapy podcast series RU OK? guides audiences through the practice of “empathetic listening”.
"In this crisis that we all face in Thailand and globally, nobody knows when it will end, and nobody knows how to best cope with it. There is no one correct answer on how we can best live our lives after this, but I believe that everyone has their own answers that are just waiting to be discovered. In the midst of these unknowns, at least we are not alone. Alone, we might not have all the answers. But we can begin to explore the unknown together in Thailand,” says Sompop Jamchan, founder of Knowing Mind.
Unknown Together examines the universally uncertain future, as well as the “unknown” emotions we have not identified or allowed ourselves to explore: the anxiety and stress during and post COVID-19. The campaign is aimed for the Thai general public, particularly the working population who may be in need of a safe space to explore questions regarding mental health - an issue that many people are often uncomfortable acknowledging or addressing. Together, we will support one another in solidarity to navigate these uncharted waters.
For more details on the campaign, visit: https://www.facebook.com/knowingmindgroup
Follow #UnknownTogether on Facebook and Instagram for updates.

United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/50845-unknowntogether-un-thailand-and-knowing-mind-collaboration-facebook-launch-mental-health




Date: 21 May 2020
Title: Thailand Economic Focus: Thailand plunges into recession as COVID-19 hits tourism and its related industries
Content: 🇺🇳 Donate to the Sustainable Development Goals Fund!
21 May 2020

Thailand’ GDP contracted 1.8% y/y in the first quarter of 2020 amid COVID-19 and trade slowdown. This marks the first decline since the first quarter of 2014 and the deepest plunge since the final quarter of 2011. The Thai economy had already been under strain from the US - China trade tensions, budget delays, drought and an uncomfortably strong Thai Baht for the bulk of 2019. Amid the pandemic in the early part of 2020, tourism and trade engines hit the brakes.
Growth drags from the virus pandemic and trade headwinds are also evident in the production approach. All three key sectors declined in the first quarter, which includes agriculture (-5.7% y/y), industrial (-1.9% y/y), and services (-1.1% y/y). Manufacturing momentum especially contracted for three straight quarters and saw the deepest contraction since the first quarter of 2012. Construction activities were hindered with a fall of 9.9% y/y in the first quarter, while the reduced tourist arrivals negatively impacted the accommodation and food service activities (-24.1% y/y).
Accordingly, Thailand’s economy is forecast to be in a recession in 2020. The state planning agency (NESDC) is now forecasting growth to contract between 5.0% and 6.0%, while the Bank of Thailand projects a decline of 5.3% y/y. With the lockdown in place since
26 March 2020, Thailand’s GDP may contract further by 9.0% y/y in the second quarter.

However, fiscal and monetary policy measures are being undertaken to cushion the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The central bank has cut its policy rate to a new historical low of 0.50%. The rate cut will add to further economic stimulus that has already been in place. The government has already introduced a generous three-part stimulus package estimated at around 15% of GDP. The accommodative monetary policy and generous fiscal measures are expected to further alleviate the liquidity problems of households and businesses as well as support economic recovery.
The views expressed within this publication are solely those of the author and do not necessarily carry the endorsement of the United Nations. Views expressed reflect the author’s judgment as at the date of this publication and are subject to change.
United Nations Building, 12th Floor
Rajdamnern Nok Avenue
Bangkok, Thailand
URL: https://thailand.un.org/en/50918-thailand-economic-focus-thailand-plunges-recession-covid-19-hits-tourism-and-its-related




