Date: 30 January 2024
Title: United Nations Agencies and Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) Launch US$ 41M Joint Programme for Data and Statistics
Content: 30 January 2024
* The joint programme is a strategic instrument to create catalytic change in the improvement of the quality, relevance and use of SDG data and statistics in Uganda
Kampala, 30 January 2024, Government and the United Nations System in Uganda have launched the Joint Programme for Data and Statistics (JPDS) in Uganda. The US$ 41,898,295 joint programme implemented by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) and 12 UN entities in Uganda is anchored on Uganda’s third National Development Plan (NDP III) 2020/2021 - 2024/2025, the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025 and the Third Plan for National Statistical Development (PNSD III) 2020/21-2024/25,
The joint programme is a strategic instrument to create catalytic change in the improvement of the quality, relevance and use of SDG data and statistics in Uganda consistent with international human rights and gender equality norms and principles. The joint programme aims at improving the capacity of the National Statistical System to produce, disseminate and use data and statistics.
While launching the joint programme, First Deputy Prime Minister, Rt. Hon. Rebecca Kadaga speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister noted that, “as a country, we are at that critical take-off stage where we must continuously and simultaneously plan ahead, reflect on progress and weigh the options on the best way forward towards sustainable social and economic development across all sectors.”
State Minister of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, Hon. Amos Lugolobi said, “I am confident that this initiative will revolutionize our National Statistical System to tap into mainstreaming administrative and citizen generated data into the realm of official statistics.”
While the Chairperson of the Board of UBOS, Dr. Albert Byamugisha observed that “the joint programme will greatly enhance the Development of the National Statistical System (NSS) and make the Bureau’s mandate more achievable by bringing all stakeholders on board.”
In his remarks Executive Director of UBOS, Dr. Chris Mukiza noted that, “the joint programme was conceived mainly to close several gaps that have persistently affected Uganda’s data ecosystem despite all the progressive initiative over the years including lack of baseline information for some SDG indicators, slow pace of producing data series from administrative sources, limited technical skills for compilation of new SDG indicators and harnessing data from non-traditional sources; inadequate financial resources to procure requisite equipment for data collection and analysis and inadequate human resources.”
UN Resident Coordinator in Uganda, Susan Namondo called “the launch a celebration of a new approach. Several UN agencies were supporting the Government on data and statistics, but this was in a fragmented way, so a lot of synergies remained untapped. The new approach would augment the good work already happening."
Twelve (12) United Nations (UN) agencies have partnered with the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) to develop a Joint Programme for Data and Statistics in Uganda are the following: United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Entity for Gender Entity and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the World Health Organisation (WHO), the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the International Office of Migration (IOM) and United Nations Global Pulse (UNGP).
The launch was attended by representatives from Government, Development Partners, civil society, faith and cultural leaders, the private sector, academia and research institutions and the media. During the launch the findings of the status review of data and statistics in Uganda were disseminated. Technical experts during the panel discussion re-affirmed the critical role of data and statistics in tracking and accelerating progress on SDGs in Uganda. They also highlighted the need to consolidate existing and build new partnerships in the implementation of the Joint Programme for Data and Statistics in Uganda. The launch drew commitment from partners to support implementation of the joint programme for data and statistics in Uganda.

FOR INQUIRIES AND INFORMATION CONTACT

Mr. Didacus Okoth
Senior Public Relations Officer
Tel +256 755342128 / 773342128

UGANDA BUREAU OF STATISTICS
Statistics House, Plot 9 Colville Street
P.O Box 7186 Kampala, Uganda
TEL: 0414706000, FAX: +256414237553
EMAIL: ubos@ubos.org, WEBSITE: www.ubos.org
Or

Mr. Michael Wangusa
Communication Officer
Tel. +256 771005 988

UN RESIDENT COORDINATORS OFFICE
WFP Building Plot 17-19 Clement Hill Road
EMAIL: UNRC.Uganda@un.org    WEBSITE: uganda.un.org

United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/259264-united-nations-agencies-and-uganda-bureau-statistics-ubos-launch-us-41m-joint-programme-data




Date: 15 November 2023
Title: Outcome Statement of the National Partnership Forum for the Government of Uganda and its Development Partners
Content: 15 November 2023
* The forum was convened by the Prime Minister of Uganda
1. The National Partnership Forum (NPF), convened by the Government of Uganda and its development partners, concluded its deliberations on matters of mutual interest consistent with the Vision 2040 aspirations implemented through the National Development Plans, National Partnership Policy, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Global Partnership for Effective Development Principles (GPEDC). The NPF reaffirmed its commitment to work together for sustainable development in Uganda.
2. The NPF had two main sessions. The first session focused on Government priorities, the Parish Development Model (PDM) – as an accelerator programme and guidelines as well as principles for development assistance that are aimed at creating an enabling environment for mutual accountability and achieving effective results. These guidelines underscore the importance of development cooperation principles both for the Government and development partners working in tandem to ensure we achieve the desired results.
3. Recognizing the invaluable contributions of Development Partners in various sectors of Uganda's development as indicated in the last paper by the LDPG, we acknowledge the significance of Official Development Assistance (ODA) to Uganda. However, we stressed the need to explore opportunities to strengthen our economy and establish a sound revenue base to sustain our nation's development goals.
4. The NPF is an integral part of the National Partnership Dialogue Framework, which operationalizes the National Partnership Policy. Going forward, we recommit to ensuring that all organs of the NPF continue to meet and discuss issues of mutual interest. To further uphold our partnership principles, we have agreed to establish a Joint Accountability and Results Framework, which will be instrumental in cultivating a culture of mutual accountability.
5. This NPF is seen as a launching pad for further engagements to address even the most challenging issues. We commend the remarkable efforts of the Prime Minister, all government agencies, and the Local Development Partners Group for their dedicated work in making this event a success.
6. As we move forward, all partners in the NPF remain resolute in their determination to collaborate, build strong relationships, and work collectively to achieve the development goals set out in Uganda's Vision 2040 and National Development Plans. We look forward to the continued growth of our partnership and are confident that together, we can overcome any challenges that lie ahead.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/253348-outcome-statement-national-partnership-forum-government-uganda-and-its-development-partners




Date: 18 August 2023
Title: United Nations Joint Statement on International Youth Day 2023
Content: 18 August 2023
* The UN Adolescent and Youth Joint Programme was launched by President Yoweri Museveni during the National Commemoration of International Youth Day in Kabale District on 18th August 2023. The US $22 million programme will cover 8 districts across 4 regions of Uganda for the 2023-2025 period in its 1st phase. The initiative will be rolled out to other districts as additional resources are mobilized. The programme will be implemented by 13 UN agencies (FAO, ILO, IOM, UNAIDS, UNCDF, UNDP, UNESCO, UNFPA, UNHCR, UNICEF, UNODC, UN Women and WHO), with the Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development as lead Ministry, and the National Youth Council.
The International Youth Day 2023 is marked by the national theme: “Accelerating Recovery from COVID-19 and full implementation of the 2030 agenda; the role of youth”, where the Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development, the United Nations (UN) agencies and partners have come together to celebrate youth contributions to national development and to highlight issues related to youth and their wellbeing, their ambitions and aspirations that remain unmet.
Uganda’s significant youth population, comprising 76% under 30 years old, holds immense potential for development. Proper investments in education, health, and protection can harness this potential, while neglect can leave them vulnerable, impacting their well-being. Uganda's adolescents and youth already face Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights (SRHR) challenges, which worsened during the COVID-19 pandemic that led to disrupted education, interruptions in access to SRHR  services and information, increased poverty, food insecurity, exposure to violence, abuse and exploitation.
It is crucial to capitalize on the potential of young Ugandans and to involve them in national and subnational planning and policy development from a demographic dividend, human rights and results based perspectives for the nation's COVID-19 recovery. Their unique experiences, views and ideas can contribute to the national and international development goals.
Spanning from 6 August, the Youth Week has been a vibrant celebration in Uganda in observance of the International Youth Day. Notably, the Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development, the National Youth Council and 13 UN agencies (FAO, ILO, IOM, UNAIDS, UNCDF, UNDP, UNESCO, UNFPA, UNHCR, UNICEF, UNODC, UN Women and WHO) will be launching the UN Adolescent and Youth Joint Programme on 18 August, when the momentous commemoration ceremony is held.
The Programme, broadly aligned to the Global UN Youth Strategy and the national frameworks and policies, aims to address the barriers hindering youth potential. The focus areas are: sexual and reproductive health, inclusive quality education, skills and employment opportunities, climate action, and peace and security. With an approximate value of 22 million USD, the Programme covers 8 districts across 4 regions of Uganda for the 2023-2025 period, which is the first phase with roll-out to other districts.
In her remarks at the commemoration of the International Youth Day, Dr. Mary Otieno, UNFPA Uganda Country Representative, while speaking on behalf of the UN System in Uganda, called for both vision and action for the youth, noting, “Youth are the resource and backbone on which the country must rely on to advance sustainable development and to generate innovative solutions that will help the country achieve its development goals and reap the demographic dividend.”
“Together, we can ensure that the 2030 agenda and Uganda’s vision 2040 promote the human rights, health and well-being of the largest generation of young people in history,” Dr. Mary Otieno concluded.
-Ends-
Notes to the Editor
Every Year on 12 August, Uganda joins the rest of the world to commemorate the International Youth Day (IYD) designated by the United Nations and is commemorated every year on 12 August 2023. The Day was proposed at the 1st World Conference of Ministers responsible for youth that took place in Lisbon-Portugal 8-12 August 1998 and approved in 1999 under Resolution 54/120 of the 54th UN General Assembly.
Uganda joins other Commonwealth countries to mark the Year of the Youth 2023, by supplementing the already existing youth programmes and will deliver on other interventions that are intended to support the youth towards COVID-19 recovery and attainment of the SDGs. Some of these programs include but are not limited to the following:-
▪       The UN Joint programme for Adolescents and Youth;
▪       A Coordination Mechanism for Youth Programmes with functional coordination structures at all levels;
▪       A National Action Plan for Youth, Peace and Security;
▪       A reviewed National Action Plan for Youth Policy;
▪       Take on mainstreaming of youth issues into Whole of Government approach;
▪       Professionalization of Youth Work for better service delivery to the young people;
▪       Support the implementation of the Parish Development Model; and
▪       Produce an annual report on the Status of Youth in Uganda.
It is believed that Uganda can harness the demographic dividend offered by its youth population by recognizing youth as key stakeholders in the recovery process; by strengthening platforms for youth participation in decision-making processes; by investing and allocating resources to youth development activities; by having a cohort of professional youth workers to support the youth; and by collaborative efforts involving government, civil society, and international partners. Uganda can pave the way for sustainable development, social progress and a brighter future for its young generation.
For more information please contact; Michael Wangusa, Communication Officer, Office of the UN Resident Coordinator - Uganda via Email: michael.wangusa@un.org
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/242674-united-nations-joint-statement-international-youth-day-2023




Date: 05 May 2022
Title: Government and the United Nations meet to discuss UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework
Content: 05 May 2022
The Joint Government - United Nations Steering Committee of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework in Uganda (2021-2025) met to discuss the implementation and the Results Report for 2021 of the UN Cooperation Framework.
The meeting took place on 5 May 2022, at the Office of the President Conference Hall in Kampala and was Chaired by the Right Hon. Robinnah Nabbanja, Prime Minister of the Republic of Uganda. The meeting was attended by government officials, donor community, international organizations, private sector, academia and civil society organisatons.
In her opening remarks, the Prime Minster thanked the United Nations team for the support, commitment and effort put into coordinating the implementation of the Cooperation Framework and urged government Ministries, Departments and Agencies to continue supporting this partnership.
The Cooperation Framework is implemented by the United Nations in collaboration with relevant Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies and has three strategic priorities; Transformative and Inclusive Governance; Shared Prosperity in a Healthy Environment and Human Well-Being and Resilience.
“As government, we remain committed to take any corrective measures necessary for the achievement of the UN Cooperation Framework objectives,” said the Prime Minster. She emphasized the need for timely reporting and accountability for both resources spent and tangible results from all projects and programmess supported.
The UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework is the most important instrument for planning and implementation of the UN development activities at country level in support of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (2030 Agenda).
The UN Resident Coordinator, Ms. Susan Namondo appreciated the strong collaboration with the government of Uganda, the donor community, international organisations, private sector, academia and civil society organisatons for their support in achieving the outcomes of the Cooperation Framework and advancing, mainstreaming, localisation and financing of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Agenda 2030.
Since the formulation of the Cooperation Framework, the context that we live in Uganda has significantly changed due to unforeseen development challenges notably the COVID-19 pandemic. This called for innovative ways of doing things. The meeting endorsed the following recommendations.
In September 2020, President Yoweri Museveni launched the Cooperation Framework for Uganda. In line with UN Reform, the Cooperation Framework was formulated through a highly consultative process over several months from 2019 to 2020 involving representative from Government, United Nations and non-state actors, including the private sector, academia, religious and cultural institutions, civil society including women, youth, and organizations representing persons with disabilities.

United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/181228-government-and-united-nations-meet-discuss-un-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework




Date: 20 April 2021
Title: Japan contributes US$ 9.8 million to support efforts towards refugees and host communities, border security as well as COVID-19 response in Uganda
Content: 20 April 2021
The Press Conference was held at the Uganda Media Centre
KAMPALA, The Government of Japan in March committed approximately US$ 9.8 million to support refugees and host communities as well as border security, with a strong focus on mitigating the COVID-19 impacts, over a period of one year from April 2021 to March 2022.
The support has been channeled through the United Nations and International Organizations: the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the empowerment of Women (UN Women), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI).
“Japan recognizes that the humanitarian situation in refugee-hosting areas is devastating, especially under the spread of the COVID-19. Therefore, the 2021’s contribution has been made with a specific focus on mitigating the impacts of the COVID-19 to the vulnerable population, including refugees, host community members, women and children in Uganda. Acknowledging Uganda’s generous progressive refugee policy and needs for humanitarian–development supports, the Government of Japan is determined to continue to support Uganda’s solidarity with refugees and host communities,” said Ambassador Fukuzawa.
Honourable Hilary Onek, Minister of Relief, Disaster Preparedness and Refugees, who attended the press conference said, “On behalf of the Government of Uganda I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government of Japan through the Ambassador of Japan in Uganda for the generosity exhibited towards the refugee community.The Government of Uganda commends the Government of Japan for their tireless efforts and support to Uganda, indeed Japan will always remain a true partner to Uganda. I am here to emphasize to the world Uganda’s generosity despite the scarcity of resources and to retaliate Uganda’s open door policy. Uganda, as a country, holds a special place on the world stage when it comes to refugees. ”
Speaking on behalf of the UN system in Uganda, H.E. Rosa Malango, the UN Resident Coordinator, said, “I would like to applaud the government and people of Japan for this valuable contribution to the global efforts in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic as well as to the advancement of the human security in Uganda.”
Present at the press conference were representatives of the involved UN agencies: Mr. Joel Boutroue (UNHCR Uganda Representative); Mr. Alain Sibenaler (UNFPA Uganda Representative); Dr. Munir Safieldin (UNICEF Uganda Representative); Ms. Sheila Ngatia (UNDP Uganda Deputy Resident Representative); Ms. Adekemi Ndieli (UN Women Uganda Deputy Country Representative); Mr. Robert Ackatia-Armah (WFP Uganda Head of Food Systems & Nutrition); Mr. Olivier Balagizi (IOM Uganda IBM Project Officer); and Mr. Jason Yauney (IFPRI Uganda, Country Representative).
The assistance has been provided to help meet the objectives the Global Compact on Refugees (GRC) through the implementation of the Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework (CRRF) in Uganda, a whole-of-society approach which, under the Government’s leadership, rallies support among a wide range of stakeholders including UN agencies, International Financial Institutions, development and humanitarian partners and the private sector to improve delivery of services for refugees and the communities hosting them.
Uganda is the largest refugee hosting country in Africa with more than 1.45 million refugees and asylum-seekers, including 83 percent women and children. Majority of the refugees and asylum seekers in Uganda originate from South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Burundi. Uganda’s refugee laws and policies are among the most progressive in the world. Refugees and asylum seekers are entitled to work, have freedom of movement and can access social services.
UNHCR             Has received US$2,500,000 towards the provision of minimum health care package in Bidibidi refugee settlement, protection services in several settlements in northern Uganda and promotion of livelihood opportunities for refugee and host communities through UNHCR-JICA cooperation on rice promotion in Rwamwanja, Rhino Camp and Adjumani settlements. The project is implemented within the context of the CRRF. The fund specifically supports the continuation and expansion of UNHCR-JICA cooperation on rice promotion and farming for refugees and their hosts; access to primary health care for over 232,000 refugee and host communities in Bidibidi as well as preparedness and response for outbreak of epidemics; community-based protection interventions to improve prevention and response to gender-based violence, child protection and mental health and psychosocial support.
UNFPA             Has received US $1,515,918 to increase availability and utilization of integrated sexual reproductive health and rights (SRHR) and gender based violence (GBV) services among refugees and host communities in target refugee hosting districts in South-Western and Northern Uganda during the COVID-19 pandemic.  UNFPA will support the strengthening of the functionality of Health Centers IVs in refugee hosting districts and support community demand creation to reduce maternal mortality among refugees and host communities. In addition, survivors of GBV will be provided with preventive prophylaxis, treatment and referrals for psychosocial support and information, and community mechanisms for early identification of SGBV victims, referral pathways and psychosocial support systems will be strengthened. The refugee response part of the project will be implemented in the refugee hosting districts of Isingiro, Kamwenge, Kyegegwa, Kikuube and Lamwo.
UN Women     Has received US $ 1,154,817 to empower over 4,000 women and girl refugees and hosts (direct) and 8,000 (indirect) to mitigate the impact of multiple crises on their livelihoods, protect themselves from exposure to gender-based violence, and participate in decision-making processes within their communities in 3 refugee hosting districts of Adjumani, Yumbe and Terego. The proposed project builds on UN Women’s experience and achievement in promoting the resilience, self-reliance, leadership, and protection of refugee women achieved in the last four years in Uganda’s refugee hosting districts.  Key strategies will involve support to women farmers to engage in Climate Smart Agriculture; women and youth increased access to second chance education livelihood initiatives; access to ICT facilities and equipment, digitalised Village Savings and Loan Associations and cash for work opportunities.  Transformational leadership skills, legal aid, psychosocial support as well as positive gender norms will be promoted in support of women's leadership and protection from violence.
UNICEF            Has received US$1,146,981 for emergency assistance for the prevention of further spread of COVID-19 Infection. With the funds received, UNICEF will play a key role in the COVID-19 health response, including risk communication action in 3 refugee hosting districts and the COVID-19 high-risk districts of Karamoja sub-region including: Isingiro, Kikuube, Kyegegwa, Abim, Amudat, Kaabong, Karenga, Napak, Nabilatuk, Nakapiripirit, Moroto and Kotido. In addition, UNICEF aims to improve the nutrition status of children and mothers in the districts of: Abim, Amudat, Kaabong, Karenga, Napak, Nabilatuk, Nakapiripirit, Moroto and Kotido. UNICEF will also undertake key WASH interventions in Kikuube and Kamwenge Districts. Finally, UNICEF will support emergency preparedness and response capacity building of Disaster Management committees in Koboko, Obongi, Kasese, Bundibugyo, Karenga, and Nakapiripirit districts.
WFP                   Has received US$1,000,000 to introduce a programme that will improve access to nutritious food among refugees and Ugandans in host communities. WFP will provide fresh-food vouchers to cover critical food needs of pregnant and nursing women and children aged 6-23 months while promoting social behavioural change. In addition, the organization will provide seed vouchers to promote the production of fast-maturing nutritious foods. WFP will stimulate demand for nutritious foods while causing households to produce and consume more high-value crops throughout the value chain.
UNDP                Has received US$880,000 to support and mitigate the effects of COVID-19 on household food security and environmental restoration. This proposed project will bridge the Humanitarian-Development-Peace nexus by providing green livelihoods options for resilience-building for refugees and host communities with a focus on women and youth. This will include vocational skills-building, MSME development and access to finance, clean energy solutions to provide energy access to health facilities to selected refugee hosting districts, while providing peace education for peaceful co-existence between refugee and host communities.
IOM                    Has received US$ 375,000 to contribute to strengthening border management to mitigate risk of terrorism from land and maritime borders in the context of COVID-19 in Uganda. IOM is working with the Ministry of Internal Affairs through the Directorate of Citizenship and Immigration Control (DCIC), and other relevant partners, to improve capacity and preparedness of border management agencies to identify and respond to terrorist groups at ports of entry through provision of specialized trainings and development of inter-agency data sharing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), as well as enhancement of critical infrastructure against terrorist attacks by the provision of maritime security counterterrorism response equipment to DCIC.
IFPRI                  Has received US$1,224,290 to vitalize rural livelihoods in the northern region that is hosting a large influx of refugees by introducing a program, SHEP promoted by Japan, that aims to improve the market profitability of horticulture and thus increase incomes and employment for small farmers. In collaboration with Sasakawa Africa Association (SAA), the intervention adopts an innovative method of training local farmers under the concept of “produce strategically to sell.” The project will contribute to stabilizing and boosting farm incomes in vulnerable, refugee-hosting communities and will build resilience of local livelihoods to COVID-19.
For more information please contact:
Embassy of Japan in Uganda
Office of the Prime Minister
Mizuki Watanabe
Pheona Bukaayi
Coordinator for Economic Cooperation
Personal Assistant to the Minister
Tel: +256 788 283 561
Tel: +256 787 687 746
Email: mizuki.watanabe-2@mofa.go.jp
Email : bukaayiphoeona@gmail.com
UN Resident Coordinator Office
UNDP Uganda
Michael Wangusa
Michael Mubangizi
Communication Officer
Communications Analyst
Tel: + 256 771 005 988
Tel: +256 772 147 564
Email: michael.wangusa@un.org
Email : michael.mubangizi@undp.org


IOM Uganda
UNHCR Uganda
Richard M Kavuma
Rocco Nuri
Public Information Officer
Senior External Relations Officer
Tel: +256 772 709 917
Tel: +256 775 827 388
Email : rmkavuma@iom.int
Email: nuri@unhcr.org


UNICEF Uganda
UNFPA Uganda
Catherine Ntabadde
Prossy Jonker Nakanjako
Communication Specialist
Communications Specialist
Tel: +256 772 147 111
Tel: +256 417 744 540
Email : cntabadde@unicef.org
Email: nakanjako@unfpa.org


UN Women Uganda
WFP Uganda
Claire Hawkins
Lydia Wamala
Program Specialist, Women, Peace, Security
Title: Communications Officer
and Humanitarian Action
Tel: +256 772 287 034
Tel: +256 785289292
Email: lydia.wamala@wfp.org
Email: claire.hawkins@unwomen.org



IFPRI Uganda

Jason Yauney

Country Representative/Head of Office

Tel: +256  772 328 045

Email: j.yauney@cgiar.org

United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/125448-japan-contributes-us-98-million-support-efforts-towards-refugees-and-host-communities-border




Date: 18 March 2021
Title: United Nations Uganda and Equity Bank Uganda establish new  partnerships for acceleration of attainment of the SDGs
Content: 18 March 2021
The United Nations system in Uganda and Equity Bank Uganda have established new partnerships for acceleration of the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the country.
The new partnership will promote social inclusion and improve economic outcomes for human development as well as contribute to the social economic transformation of Uganda. Additionally, the UN-Equity Bank Joint Programme on “Enhancing Social Impact through SDGs” will focus on Financial Inclusion, Innovation and Shared Prosperity; and Institutional Partnerships, Governance and Shared Leadership.
The collaboration commenced at a meeting between the leadership of the UN system in Uganda led by UN Resident Coordinator and Designated Official for Security H.E. Rosa Malango and the leadership of Equity Group Uganda, Equity Group Foundation, and Equity Group Holdngs led by Equity Group MD and CEO Dr. James Mwangi.
Equity Group Holdings Plc whose purpose is to transform lives, give dignity and expand opportunities for wealth creation continues to play a leading role in contributing to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda on the Sustainable Development Goals. Through its regional banking subsidiaries Equity is already collaborating with UN agencies in Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda and in other footprint countries and aims to enhance this partnership in new areas to contribute to the acceleration of the achievement of the SDGs.
Commenting during the signing of the partnership, Dr. James Mwangi said, “As Equity Group we are committed to not only grow with our customers but also to empower them socially and economically by availing opportunities and solutions that cater for their diverse needs. As a Pan-African bank whose purpose is to transform lives and livelihoods, we are excited to scale up our initiatives in partnership with the UN by supporting the growth and recovery of MSMEs during and post the COVID-19 pandemic, supporting women and youth entrepreneurs to scale their skills and businesses and by providing financial inclusion for the most vulnerable populations including the refugee communities.”
The United Nations system in Uganda is comprised of 29 entities that are implementing the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF, 2021 – 2025) focusing on transformative and inclusive governance; shared prosperity in a healthy environment; and human well-being and resilience, in support of the third National Development Plan (NDP III), Vision 2040, the East African Vision 2050, African Union Vision 2063 and the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs.
The SDGs, adopted in 2015 by all United Nations member states of the UN General Assembly, were designed to be a "blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all". They are intended to be achieved by the year 2030. The SDGs have the ambitious goal to guide the sustainable development of the planet, embracing its economic, social, and environmental dimensions, in a balanced way to spearhead societies towards a sustainable and equitable future.
“While the UN remains steadfast in supporting Uganda’s development aspirations especially during these unprecedented times of the COVID-19 pandemic, the needs are still enormous and call for strengthened partnership with other actors,” said Ms. Malango. “I welcome Equity Uganda’s commitment to join efforts with the United Nations in providing solutions to critical challenges, including inclusive financing for youth and women led Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and unlocking the potential of digital technologies to support Uganda’s socio-economic transformation.”
About United Nations Uganda
The United Nations Uganda Vision 2030 is ‘A Transformed inclusive Ugandan Society where People have Improved Quality of Life and Resilience for Sustainable Development. This vision is attained through implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF 2021-2025). Focusing on three Strategic Priorities: 1) Transformative and Inclusive Governance, 2) Shared Prosperity in a Healthy Environment, and 3) Human Well-being and Resilience.  The Cooperation Framework is implemented by the Heads of UN in entities investing in Uganda supported by over 3,000 UN personnel.
The Cooperation Framework provides a platform for mutual accountability for the implementation of SDGs in Uganda as a pathway to bring the national vision of becoming a prosperous & modern society to life. The UN in Uganda has several joint initiatives to promote innovation, inclusiveness, climate action, creating enabling policy framework and establish strategic partnerships with the people and partners of Uganda. The UN Emergency Appeal for COVID19 and its implications; the UN socio-economic analysis; Fast Track initiative on HIV/AIDS; and the upcoming 1 Million SDG Solutions by Youth in Uganda Innovation Challenge are a few examples. There are over 3000 UN personnel in Uganda in 4 regional hubs, with 25 district presences, nationwide coverage.
Website Links
https://uganda.un.org/
About Equity Bank Uganda
Equity Bank Uganda began its operations in 2008 and is registered as a commercial bank through the Bank of Uganda. The Bank has its Head Office located in Kampala, with a network of 44 branches, 4,277 Equiduuka agents, 5,845 merchants and 46 ATMs spread across the country and serving over one million customers.
Equity Bank Uganda is a wholly owned subsidiary of Equity Group Holdings Plc, a financial services company listed at the Nairobi Securities Exchange, Uganda Securities Exchange, and Rwanda Stock Exchange. In addition to Equity Bank Uganda, the Group has banking subsidiaries in, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, DRC, South Sudan, and a Commercial Representative Office in Ethiopia; with additional non-banking subsidiaries engaged in the provision of investment banking, custodial, insurance agency, philanthropy, consulting, and infrastructure services.
Equity Group Holdings (EGHL) is a Pan-African financial services holding company listed at the Nairobi Securities Exchange, Uganda Securities Exchange, and Rwanda Stock Exchange. The organization is Kenya’s first trillion-shilling balance sheet bank. The Group has banking subsidiaries in Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, South Sudan, Tanzania, and DRC and a representative office in Ethiopia. It has other subsidiaries in investment banking, insurance, telecom, fintech and social impact investments. Equity Group has an asset base of over USD $10 billion. With over 14.2 million customers, the Group is one of the biggest banks in customer base in the region. Since 2008, the Group’s corporate foundation, Equity Group Foundation (EGF), has delivered humanitarian programs in Education and Leadership, Food and Agriculture, Social Protection, Health, Energy and the Environment, Enterprise Development and Financial Inclusion to millions of Africans. EGF has a networked health care provider, Equity Afia which has been supporting COVID-19 relief efforts.
Website Links
https://equitygroupholdings.com/ug/
https://equitygroupfoundation.com/

For further information, please contact: -
Michael Wangusa
United Nations Uganda
T:  0771005988
E: michael.wangusa@un.org

Camilla Mindru
Equity Uganda
T: 0774 582 961
E: Camilla.Mindru@equitybank.co.ug



United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/122617-united-nations-uganda-and-equity-bank-uganda-establish-new-partnerships-acceleration




Date: 06 March 2021
Title: West Nile embraces Agri-LED approach to Sustainable Development
Content: 06 March 2021
The West Nile Development Association (WENDA) Annual General Meeting was held at Muni University, Arua City


West Nile political, civil society and private sector leaders yesterday embraced the Agri-LED approach to sustainable development during the West Nile Development Association (WENDA) Annual General Meeting at Muni University, in Arua City.
The United Nations Resident Coordinator, H.E. Rosa Malango was the Guest of Honour and delivered the keynote address on the theme "Building Sustainable Peace and Development through Agro- Industrialisation in West Nile: Lessons from Rwenzori and Beyond." The Agro-industrialisation for Local Economic Development (Agri-LED), which is a transformative Presidential Initiative, is an innovative approach to realizing people's aspirations at the local level by focusing on local evidence and prioritizing value-chains based on natural resources.
The meeting was attended the First Deputy Prime Minister, Rt. Hon. Gen. Moses Ali; Minister of State for Northern Uganda, Hon. Grace Kwiyucwinyi, Minister of State for Energy, Hon. Simon D'Ujanga. Vice Chancellor of Muni University, Prof. Christine Dranzoa; WENDA Executive Director, Mr. Moses Akuma Odims; Members of Parliament from West Nile; and UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) Head of Office in Uganda, Dr. Dmitry Pozhidaev. “The 15 districts of West Nile are more united than ever before and we are on course to achieve sustainable development,” said Gen. Ali. While Hon. D’ Ujanga revealed that West Nile would soon be connected to the national electricity grid and that electricity lines were already being connected in the region.
Led by Muni University, the findings and recommendations of the research on the social economic challenges in West Nile conducted by WENDA revealed that only 30% of the arable land in West Nile is under productive use and crop yields are below the national average. The study recommended opening up and productively using the arable land through the one-acre model  approach, the use of organic and inorganic fertilizers as well as mechanization. The study also recommended value addition through cooperative arrangements in the region.
In her keynote address Ms. Malango explained the Agri-LED initiative in Rwenzori region as a joint effort by Operation Wealth Creation (OWC), Uganda Investment Authority (UIA) and the National Planning Authority (NPA), with whom the UN has collaborated to demonstrate the investment potential of Rwenzori region including the Rwenzori Investment Expo which was held in Fort Portal in January last year where over 200 local businesses and innovations were profiled in seven priority areas. She noted that participants included international delegations from Chine, Lebanon, Germany, Belgium, Kenya, DRC, Tanzania and South Sudan while five business deals were signed. The Expo was opened by His Excellency President Yoweri Museveni and attended by over 3,000 participants from 21 districts. Following the Expo, her office together with OWC, UIA and NPA published the Rwenzori Exhibitors' profiles as part of evidence generation, the first ever consolidated publication on the 194 businesses which exhibited at the Rwenzori expo. In addition, Rwenzori investment profiles were produced in five priority sectors: Agriculture; Infrastructure and services: Tourism: Human Capital Development (education and health); and Extractives and Minerals. Promotional videos of the Rwenzori Investment Profiles were also prepared and can be accessed at www.uganda.un.org and www.ugandainvest.go.ug Ms. Malango also provided an overview of UN footprint and investments in the region in support of humanitarian and development, and reiterated the UN commitment to support implementation of SDGs in the region including through Agri-LED.
Ms. Malango welcomed the baseline created through the research by WENDA and recommended prioritization by focusing on 4-5 key economic areas that can kick-start rural economic growth and leverage investment informed by relevant value chains; creating a local enabling environment to attract local and foreign investments into the region by ensuring accountability from parish to District to city and regional levels; ensuring a clear division of labour from the parish to national level to help farmers enhance value addition, create jobs, increase exports, and access to markets; and streamline financing by establishing a Consolidated Inter-Governmental Pooled Fund as a financing instrument for National Vision 2040 and SDGs. She also recommended the establishment of a regional partnership network to monitor progress, encouraged National Initiative for Civic Education in Uganda (NICE-UG) to support the development of civic education program to support mind set change in the region and suggested a strategic discussion including the Government and the UN to ensure the recommendations were feasible in the current global economic environment. She strongly encouraged leaders to factor in the strategic location of West Nile in order to benefit from markets in the Democratic Republic of Congo (newest member of the East African Community) and South Sudan. Ms. Malango also encouraged WENDA members to leverage existing investments in industrial parks already made across the country including the newly established park in Kasese and invited participants to assess modalities to improve post-harvest handling and transport for value-addition purposes.
The meeting appreciated the lessons from the Agri-LED approach in the Rwenzori region and committed to follow the best practices including the involvement of the private sector in their sustainable development plans including maximizing the potential of tourism and establishing an annual expo on opportunities in West Nile.
For further information
simon.nsereko@un.org        michael.wangusa@un.org

United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/115188-west-nile-embraces-agri-led-approach-sustainable-development




Date: 04 March 2021
Title: Uganda’s Sustainable Development Goals Data Platform goes live
Content: 04 March 2021
The Open Data Platform (ODP) acts as a data warehouse for Uganda’s statistical data and metadata for SDGs, and provides dashboards and visualisations to users, as well as data downloads in a variety of formats
Uganda now has a national Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) data and metadata platform, which enables anyone to obtain information on the SDGs in Uganda online at https://uganda.opendataforafrica.org/sdg
The Open Data Platform (ODP) acts as a data warehouse for Uganda’s statistical data and metadata for SDGs, and provides dashboards and visualisations to users, as well as data downloads in a variety of formats, useful for both the public interested in a high-level overview of how Uganda is progressing towards the SDGs and policy analysts and researchers who may want to explore the data in more detail.
Uganda is one of twenty countries across Africa and Asia participating in the UNSD-DFID project, which is led by the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD) and funded by the UK Department for International Development. The overall objective of the project is to make Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) data open and available to the widest possible audience. The project aims to improve the availability of data on nationally aligned SDG indicators and making them more accessible through national data and metadata platforms for dissemination.
ODP is a cloud-based dissemination platform developed by the African Development Bank (AfDB) with support from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and is available to all African countries. UNSD and AfDB worked with Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) and the SDG Secretariat at the Office of the Prime Minister to develop the platform, with support from the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office (RCO) in Uganda. UBOS is the chair of the Data Technical Working Group within the National SDG Coordination Framework.
The ODP platform currently contains data for 40 global SDG indicators and allows the user to browse through some initial visualisations and view the global metadata for each indicator and download data for further use. Other developments foreseen include the addition of further data, including extended time series for the global indicators and the addition of national SDG indicators, as well as the addition of national metadata for the indicators. As part of this process, UNSD and AfDB will be providing in-depth training to UBOS and other stakeholders so that they can take full ownership of maintaining and updating the platform and dashboards.
For Further information
Uganda Bureau of Statistics     UN Resident Coordinator’s Office     SDG Secretariat
molly.acan@ubos.org           michael.wangusa@un.org           bpascal17711@gmail.com
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/114699-uganda%E2%80%99s-sustainable-development-goals-data-platform-goes-live




Date: 03 March 2021
Title: Next-generation Regional Collaborative Platform meeting kicks off for first time with regional UN entities in Africa
Content: 03 March 2021
The new Regional Collaborative Platform has responded to the growing need for enhanced UN coordination and regional collaboration in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic and implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
BRAZZAVILLE – Africa’s regional know-how, assets and policy expertise will be more systematically channeled to the Resident Coordinators and United Nations Country Teams (UNCTs) across the continent as they help countries ensure an inclusive and sustainable transition out of the COVID-19 crisis, UN Deputy Secretary-General and Chair of the UN Sustainable Development Group Amina J. Mohammed stressed as she joined the first annual meeting of the new Regional Collaborative Platform on 2 March 2021.
“Today marks the start of the next-generation collaboration approach for the regional UN entities to support African countries to respond and recover better from the COVID-19 pandemic and reignite the Decade of Action for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is aligned with the Africa Union Agenda 2063,” Ms. Mohammed said.
The United Nations has been making progress on its sweeping reforms to strengthen its support to countries, leveraging its capacities at all levels. The new Regional Collaborative Platform has responded to the growing need for enhanced UN coordination and regional collaboration in the face of the pandemic and implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. It brings together UN regional expertise, capacity and data to provide analytical, policy and operational support to countries.
Yesterday’s discussion, attended by regional representatives from the Africa UN development system, focused on high-priority issues for the African continent to recover better from the pandemic and move toward the Sustainable Development Goals. These included accelerating the implementation of the continental free trade agreement; investing in youth and women’s empowerment to help countries reap the benefit of their demographic dividends; advancing home-grown sustainable and scalable technologies and digital solutions; building climate and disaster resilience; and continuing to support the African Union’s “Silencing the Guns” initiative.
Across the continent, Resident Coordinators and UNCTs are supporting countries in their access to COVAX vaccines and their socioeconomic response plans. In addition to the pandemic recovery, UN entities will work together to support sustainable development efforts in the Sahel, the Lake Chad Basin and the Horn of Africa, and address the resurgence of Ebola, and climate crises with severe damage caused by deadly droughts, cyclones and locust outbreaks.
“We are still in a recovery phase for the continent. We need additional resources. Our low- and middle-income countries, as well as small island states, have lost a lot of their resources. They need more fiscal space. They need more revenues. They need additional liquidity to ensure we build forward better,” said Under-Secretary-General Vera Songwe, Executive Secretary of the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA).
Although it was a transitional year, the regional UN entities demonstrated evidence of enhanced system-wide collaboration at the regional level. For example, last year, all of them joined forces to launch the Knowledge Management Hub on COVID-19 and shared a business continuity plan with governments to support their e-governance, e-justice and e-commerce for livelihoods, while the Africa e-education strategy was introduced to Resident Coordinators to provide emergency education to more than 100 million African children out of school.
“The African region is at a strategic juncture with COVID-19 recovery programmes and investments that we are making to enhance trade. All our efforts will yield desired results only if Africa’s people – our most important resource – feel productive, if they feel valued, if they feel safe, and if they feel secure,” said Assistant Secretary-General Ahunna Eziakonwa, Director of the Regional Bureau for Africa at the UN Development Programme (UNDP).
The new platform will engage with the African Union in April and accelerate its effort to deliver on its promise with an impact-oriented focus on implementations.
The Regional Collaborative Platform is chaired by the UN Deputy Secretary-General with two Vice-Chairs: Ms. Songwe and Ms. Eziakonwa. Its joint secretariat is comprised of UNECA, UNDP and the UN Development Coordination Office (DCO).
###
Notes for correspondents
Agenda 2063 is Africa’s blueprint and master plan for transforming Africa into the global powerhouse of the future. It is the continent’s strategic framework that aims to deliver on its goal for inclusive and sustainable development.
The UN Resident Coordinator system encompasses all organizations of the United Nations system dealing with operational activities for development, regardless of their formal presence in the country.
Media contacts
Hiroyuki Saito, Regional Communications Officer
Regional Office for Africa, UN Development Coordination Office
saitoh@un.org

Maleele Choongo
Regional Bureau for Africa, UN Development Programme
Maleele.choongo@undp.org
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/114713-next-generation-regional-collaborative-platform-meeting-kicks-first-time-regional-un




Date: 17 February 2021
Title: United Nations receives National Unity Platform (NUP) petition on alleged human rights violations
Content: 17 February 2021
NUP is the main opposition party that contested the Presidential and Parliamentary elections on 14th January 2021
The United Nations in Uganda confirms that today the leader of the National Unity Platform (NUP), Mr. Robert Kyagulanyi accompanied by five party officials handed over a petition on alleged human rights violations that marred the electoral process, to the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights (OHCHR) Representative in Uganda, Mr. Robert Kotchani at his office in Kampala.
In accordance with established procedures, OHCHR will immediately study these allegations and take the appropriate actions. The United Nations Resident Coordinator will share copies of this petition with the host government and United Nations Headquarters. The United Nations in Uganda wishes to recognize that the Uganda Police Force Very Important Persons Protection Unit (VVIPU) abided by established procedures which enabled the NUP leadership to have a peaceful meeting at the OHCHR office in Kampala.
The United Nations in Uganda wishes to deplore that prior to the meeting, members of the Uganda Military Police used excessive force to prevent a number of persons accompanying the NUP delegation from accessing OHCHR premises. This behaviour contravenes the agreement with the Government of Uganda regarding the safety and security of UN premises, personnel and guests as well as national and international commitments. The Republic of Uganda is a member of the United Nations and has conveyed in the past its commitment to peace, justice, human rights and development. The UN calls on the Government to immediately investigate this incident and ensure that those responsible are brought to justice.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/112336-united-nations-receives-national-unity-platform-nup-petition-alleged-human-rights-violations




Date: 14 December 2020
Title: United Nations in Uganda extends programme criticality to missions from abroad
Content: 14 December 2020
The United Nations in Uganda remains committed to sustaining its operations in support of the national vision 2040 and the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As part of the normal prevention measures, since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in Uganda in March 2020, the UN adjusted its operations to focus on programmes critical to address COVID-19 and its implications as well as humanitarian life-saving services in addition to maintaining an air bridge to support UN peace and political missions in Africa. The UN has extended this programme criticality approach to official missions from abroad in order to remain focused on life-saving and COVID-19 related operations. UN critical programmes include operations in health, food security, livelihoods and nutrition; life-saving services; elimination of gender-based violence and hate speech; social protection, justice and civic education; refugees, displaced persons and vulnerable returning migrants; immediate economic support for vulnerable people in remote areas and in the informal sector; as well as coordination and common services including safety and security. Programme criticality will be reviewed after the elections, taking into consideration the COVID-19 situation in the country.
All UN offices in Uganda remain open operating in accordance with the COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures issued by the Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization. We wish to use this opportunity to call on all stakeholders to be champions of tolerance and peaceful co-existence during the coming days and to support those around you to comply with the COVID-19 SOPs. We must avoid a repetition of recent events in different parts of the country including physical confrontations, incitement and hate speech by promoting peace & inclusive development. Sustaining peace is a shared responsibility and a  common  good.  The  UN  reiterates  our  commitment to  work  with  the  people  and Government of Uganda to provide humanitarian assistance, promote peace and support efforts to achieve the SDGs. Please go to  uganda.un.org to get more information on the work of the United Nations system in Uganda.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/105090-united-nations-uganda-extends-programme-criticality-missions-abroad




Date: 10 December 2020
Title: United Nations in Uganda Launches new website - uganda.un.org
Content: 10 December 2020
The UN Resident Coordinator in Uganda, H.E. Rosa Malango has launched the new website of the United Nations system in Uganda.
The website was launched during the national commemoration of Human Rights Day and conclusion of the 16 days of activism against gender-based violence at Mestil Hotel, Kampala.
“I am happy to use this opportunity to launch the new website of the United Nations system in Uganda - uganda.un.org The website is about transparency, awareness and the transfer of knowledge; it is about ensuring that all people in Uganda can gain a better understanding of UN work, plans and partners. I invite stakeholders and the public to use it frequently to identify opportunities for partnership,” said Ms. Malango.
The resources include important UN publications such as the Uganda UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2021 -2025, which articulates the United Nations’ collective response to support the Government of Uganda in addressing national priorities and gaps in their pathway towards meeting the third National Development Plan (NDPIII) and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) targets.  A key set of publications available are the Rwenzori Region investment profiles for the five sectors of Agriculture, Tourism, Human Capital Development, Extractives and Mineral Benefication; and Infrastructure and Services; under the Rwenzori Agri-LED, which is an innovative approach that will spur the region’s socio-economic transformation. Other publications include the UN Reform Milestones in Uganda and Analyses of the Socio Economic Impact of COVID-19 in Uganda. There are also videos and stories  by UN agencies and partners contributing to the attainment of the SDGs. The press centre has press releases, speeches and media contacts for UN agencies in Uganda.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/104607-united-nations-uganda-launches-new-website-ugandaunorg




Date: 02 December 2020
Title: United Nations in Uganda committed to stay and deliver
Content: 02 December 2020
As we come to the end of 2020, the United Nations (UN) system in Uganda would like to express its appreciation to the Government and people of Uganda and to its partners for the long-standing partnership in support of humanity. The COVID-19 pandemic led to unprecedented challenges during which the UN stood shoulder to shoulder with the Government and people of this nation in search of solutions. Some of the UN’s contributions to Uganda include support to the Government and Interagency coordination structures for COVID-19 and other public health emergencies,  strengthened risk communication and social mobilization, support to refugees and natural disasters as well as efforts to support agri-industrialization and digital financing. The UN Emergency Appeal for COVID-19 and its impact led to the mobilization of US$ 44.3 million which enabled the implementation of UN critical programmes. In addition, five UN agencies mobilized US$ 5 million from the UN Central Emergency Response Fund to protect refugees, particularly women & children, eliminate gender-based violence, support shelters for victims, and address emergency nutrition and health needs.
The UN in Uganda has sustained critical operations during the COVID-19 lockdown and continues to ensure the delivery of critical services across the nation. Our partners include civil society, private sector, academia, local institutions, cultural and religious leaders, development partners, security agencies and the Government, among others. The UN also closely monitors all threats and opportunities to both ensure the safety of its personnel and the successful implementation of its initiatives. All UN offices in Uganda remain open operating in accordance with the COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures issued by the Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization. We reiterate our commitment to work with the people and Government of Uganda to provide humanitarian assistance, promote peace and support efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Please go to uganda.un.org to read the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2021-2025 and get more information on the work of the United Nations system in Uganda.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/103357-united-nations-uganda-committed-stay-and-deliver




Date: 28 September 2020
Title: Launch of the UN and SDGs Awareness Month October 2020
Content: 28 September 2020
Kampala – The Government of Uganda in partnership with the United Nations in Uganda has launched the UN and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Awareness Month October 2020. The announced was made by the Minister for General Duties and Focal Point Minister for SDGs, Hon. Mary Okurut and UN Resident Coordinator, H.E. Rosa Malango.
Speaking at the Uganda the Uganda today, Hon. Okurut noted that there are still many gaps, including lack of awareness about the SDGs.
“Even those who are directly implementing the SDGs are not fully aware of the SDGs framework and the associated targets and indicators and how they influence planning for the country,” she said. “This is why this SDGs Awareness month is particularly important. It is also necessary for us to understand that even when October ends, we must continue to preach the SDGs message and have everyone know their role in achieving the goals and act on them.”
“This year the United Nations marks her 75th anniversary under the theme “The future we want, the United Nations we need: reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism” The  commemoration will be used to raise awareness about the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” said UN Resident Coordinator H.E. Rosa Malango
“I would like to congratulate the United Nations on reaching the milestone of her 75th Anniversary. The 75th Anniversary of the United Nation is significant because it is an opportunity to reflect on the role of the United Nations in the World today and in Uganda in particular,” said Ambassador Isaac Sebulinde, who represented the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals) were adopted by 193 United Nations member states in 2015. The Goals are part of the UN Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. The SDGs comprise a total of 169 targets, which seek to tackle a wide range of issues facing both developed and developing countries. These issues include poverty, inequality, climate change, inclusive societies and access to health and education.
This year due to the COVID-19 pandemic the activities of the UN and SDGs Awareness Month will be carried out in full observance of the COVID-19 prevention Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) developed by the Ministry of Health and the World Health Organisation. We invite to join virtually or if selected to be among select groups at particular locations.
More information on the UN and SDGs Awareness Month October 2020  is available at ug.one.un.org  and on the websites and online platforms of UN agencies and Government, Ministries, Departments and Agencies
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/94030-launch-un-and-sdgs-awareness-month-october-2020




Date: 09 September 2020
Title: President launches the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025
Content: 09 September 2020

Kampala, September 9, 2020 – The President of Uganda, H.E. Yoweri Museveni, has launched the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025 for Uganda at a ceremony attended by Heads of UN Agencies in Uganda and Senior Government officials at State House, Entebbe. The UN Resident Coordinator in Uganda, H.E. Ms. Rosa Malango signed the UNSDCF on behalf of the United Nations Secretary-General.
“The UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework comes at the opportune time to contribute to National Vision 2040 and the Third National Development Plan 2020/21 – 2024/25 (NDP III). I also hope we will further deepen the focus on youth employment, entrepreneurship and education programmes, including access to reproductive health information and services,” said President Museveni.
“With the Sustainable Development Goals at its core, the UNSDCF enables 31 UN entities to implement programmes through three Strategic Priorities: 1) Transformative and Inclusive Governance; 2) Shared Prosperity in a Healthy Environment; and 3) Human Well-being and Resilience,” said Ms. Malango.
UN General Assembly Resolution 72/279, on the repositioning of the UN Development System, positions the UNSDCF as the  most important UN country planning instrument in support of the 2030 Agenda. The current Uganda UN Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) will be ending on 31 December 2020.
Guided by the United Nations Uganda’s vision of contributing to a transformed, inclusive Ugandan Society where people have improved quality of life and resilience for Sustainable Development, and building on the successes of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) 2016-2020, the UNSDCF 2021-25 will support the Government of Uganda to accelerate development and social transformation across Uganda as outlined in Vision 2040 and the third National Development Plan (NDPIII).
The UNSDCF 2021-25 was informed by a series of multi-stakeholder consultative processes, evaluation of the second National Development Plan (NPDII) and learnings from the implementation of UNDAF. Consultation was undertaken with the leadership of the Office of the Prime Minister and involved stakeholders including the National Planning Authority (NPA) and Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED).
The UNSDCF 2021-25 adopts strategies that will accelerate Uganda’s digital transformation, support the Government’s role in the economy, enhance productivity and job security in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), support the Government and key actors to meet increased demand for quality and inclusive social and protection services, and strengthen disaster risk reduction systems from national to community levels.
Prior to the launch ceremony at State House, UN stakeholders including representatives from the diplomatic community, development partners, government officials, civil society and youth participated in two panel discussions live on NBS Television focusing on Coordination, Programming and Financing for Development. H.E. Kazuaki Kameda, Ambassador of Japan to Uganda, called for focus on financing for the Sustainable Development Goals from non-traditional sources including foundations and the private sector. Nurudin Busingye, CEO Smart Youth Network Initiative highlighted the challenges youth faced in accesses financing including bureaucracy. He called for youth to be supported to enhance their skills through training among others. Brian Tahinduka, Sector Head, Power, Infrastructure and Telecoms, Stanbic Bank, highlighted some of Stanbic Bank’s opportunities for support for young people including the Business Incubator Programme.
“Uganda has the second youngest population in the world, and this comes along with challenges and opportunities. The UN system in Uganda will join the Government in their efforts to skill the youth of Uganda. The UN System in partnership with the National SDGs Secretariat at the Office of the Prime Minister and Youth Coalition for SDGs are undertaking a nationwide the One Million SDG Solutions from Youth in Uganda Innovation Challenge. The challenge aims at identifying and providing a catalogue of solutions that are changing lives positively and linking them with support from partners including from the private sector to enable them to scale up,’ said Ms. Malango.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/94202-president-launches-un-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework-unsdcf-2021-2025




Date: 02 September 2020
Title: Prime Minister signs Joint Statement of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025
Content: 02 September 2020
Kampala - The Prime Minister of Uganda, The Right. Honourable, Dr. Ruhakana Rugunda, signed the Joint Statement of the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025.
The UN Resident Coordinator in Uganda, H.E. Ms. Rosa Malango signed on behalf of the United Nations System in Uganda, while the Chairperson of the National Planning Authority (NPA), Prof. Pamela Mbabazi signed on behalf of NPA.
Guided by the United Nations Uganda’s vision of contributing to a transformed inclusive Ugandan Society where people have improved quality of Life and Resilience for Sustainable Development, and building on the successes of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) 2016-2020, the UNSDCF2021-2025  aims to support the Government to accelerate development and social transformation across Uganda as outlined in Vision 2040 and the third National Development Plan (NDPIII).
“The signing of this cooperation framework is another welcome demonstration of the mutually beneficial relationship between the UN system in Uganda and the Government and people of Uganda,” Prime Minister Dr Ruhakana Rugunda said.  “We deeply value the role and contribution made by  the UN system in promoting the development agenda of Uganda. We are committed to ensuring that this partnership grows from strength to strength” he added.
UN General Assembly Resolution 72/279 on the repositioning of the UN Development System, positions the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework as the single most important UN country planning instrument in support of the 2030 Agenda. The Joint Statement stipulates the Cooperation Framework accountability featuring the UN entities that will support the UNSDCF implementation, the UN Country Team configuration and key highlights of UN entities’ contributions to the UNSDCF.
The UNSDCF accountability and signing levels include: 1) The Joint Statement at ministerial and UN Country Team level signed by the Right Honourable Prime Minister, Chairperson of the National Planning Authority (NPA), UN Resident Coordinator and UN entities and, 2) The Cooperation Framework at State level signed by His Excellency the President on behalf of the
Republic of Uganda  and the UN Secretary-General’s Representative – by the UN Resident Coordinator. These will be followed by the formulation of the annualized Joint Work Plans aligned to the Program Implementation Plans of NDPIII.
Prof. Pamela Mbabazi  highlighted the synergies expected between NDP III and the UNSDCF noting that,  “the two planning documents bring our work in line and therefore the synchronized start of their implementation will enhance synergies and coordination, transparency and efficiency in the delivery of the both government and UN activities”
“I would also like to commend the UN system for adopting a whole-of-UN-system approach to jointly supporting the Government of Uganda towards meeting NDPIII and SDGs targets. The effort and consideration put into ensuring that all the 31 UN agencies promote coherence and mutual accountability cannot go un-recognized. The motivation of delivering as one to achieve common results is also at the heart of the programming principles of the NDPIII,” she added.
“Today we are witnessing a critical milestone in the new partnership between the United Nations and the Government and people of Uganda. The Cooperation Framework reinforces the mutual accountability between the UN and the host Government by creating space for the Joint Statement of accountability at Ministerial and UN Country Team level which today will be signed by the Right Honourable Prime Minister, the Chairperson of the National Planning Authority (NPA), UN Resident Coordinator and UN entities. The Joint Statement provides information on the capabilities and contributions of UN entities as well as the UN Country Team configuration,” said Ms. Malango.
“I wish to re-affirm the UN’s commitment to working with all stakeholders in supporting the Government towards the achievement of NDP III and SDG targets, and promotion of regional integration, peace and security, by addressing Africa Union Agenda 2063 and East African Vision 2050,” said Ms. Malango.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/94204-prime-minister-signs-joint-statement-un-sustainable-development-cooperation-framework-unsdcf




Date: 06 August 2020
Title: Norway contributes NOK 20 million to the United Nations (UN) Uganda Multi-Partner Trust Fund to respond to COVID-19 and its impacts
Content: 06 August 2020
Kampala, Uganda – The Government of Norway has contributed NOK 20 million (approximately USD 2,2 million/UGX 8 billion) to the UN Uganda Multi-Partner Trust Fund to respond to COVID-19 and its impacts.
“Norway is a strong supporter of the UN system, and a major donor to the global UN development assistance system. The UN Emergency COVID-19 Appeal has an important role to play in helping and supporting the Ugandan authorities in its impressive response to the COVID-19 pandemic. I am pleased to announce that Norway is providing a contribution of NOK 20 million to the UN Uganda Multi-Partner Trust Fund to this effect, through the agreement that is signed today,” said Chargé d’Affaires at Norwegian Embassy, Mr. Arne Haug.
“On behalf of the UN system in Uganda, I convey our deepest gratitude to the Government of Norway for its generosity, dedication and commitment to the engagement, promotion and strengthening of international cooperation”. “Coordinated efforts to mitigate COVID-19 medium and long-term effects remain critical. Support through the pooled fund mechanism will leverage partnerships with the government, development partners, and NGOs as well as the private sector”, said the UN Resident Coordinator in Uganda, Ms. Rosa Malango.
“Norway’s contribution to the UN Uganda Multi-Partner Trust Fund/Emergency Window that is newly established, serves to demonstrate the importance Norway attaches to a stronger coordinated UN system and efforts to help the UN to assist Uganda in tackling the consequences of the coronavirus crisis”, said Ms. Malango.
“This new country-level pooled fund in Uganda focused with a start-up on COVID-19 is a good example of what a reformed UN means in practice: a more integrated and flexible response to shared short and longer term development and development emergency priorities. This agile mechanism will allow for more impactful and efficient joint collaboration of the UN with national and international partners in Uganda in support of the SDG’s,” said Ms. Jennifer Topping, Executive Coordinator, UN Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office.
On 21 March 2020, Uganda confirmed its first COVID-19 imported case and since then cases have gradually been on the rise. Wide-ranging pandemic containment measures impacted livelihoods and employment opportunities, particularly for women, who make up 86% of the informal sector and essential health services disruption.
To support the Government of Uganda to ensure urgent and robust response, the UN in Uganda, together with the Government and NGO partner organizations launched the UN Emergency Appeal for COVID-19 Response and its Impacts in Uganda  on 23 April 2020. Beyond the immediate public health aspects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the disease also has humanitarian and socio-economic consequences, as already seen in the global economic slow-down.
Urban slum residents make up over 60% of Kampala’s population and have suffered the most. Over 6 million urban poor living in Kampala and other urban areas nationwide will need an exceptional amount of food assistance. 60% of people observed increase in acts of sexual violence against children by peers, caregivers and community members leading to an increase in teenage pregnancies and girls drawn into commercial sexual exploitation. Primary and secondary school age refugee children missed 60% of 840 school hours since March.
The UN Emergency Appeal aims to mobilize US$ 316.4 million to support 12.8 million people by addressing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the most vulnerable people in Uganda, including the elderly, people living with disabilities, women and girls, refugees, widows, female-headed households, market women, street vendors, people living with HIV and TB, migrants and those displaced by natural disasters.
The UN Uganda Multi-Partner Trust Fund will also support implementation of the SDGs and UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF) 2021-2025 aligned to Third National Development Plan (NDP III). The Fund will have several thematic windows that will be further rolled-out.
"On behalf of the United Nations in Uganda, I convey my thanks to the Governments of Uganda and Norway for collective effort to respond to Covid-19 and support the most vulnerable communities. We remain committed to leave no one behind and we call on everyone to continue working together to address this crisis", said the UN Resident Coordinator in Uganda, Ms. Malango.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/94242-norway-contributes-nok-20-million-united-nations-un-uganda-multi-partner-trust-fund-respond




Date: 06 August 2020
Title: UN Resident Coordinator concludes mission to South Western Uganda
Content: 06 August 2020
Mbarara, 9 August 2020 - The United Nations Resident Coordinator and Designated Official for Security (UNRC/DO) in Uganda, H.E. Rosa Malango, has concluded a three-day mission to South Western Uganda. The purpose of the mission was to visit United Nations frontline staff and partners implementing critical humanitarian and development programmes in conformity with COVID-19 preventive and response measures. The mission also aimed to increase awareness of UN actions underway in support of vulnerable populations, to visit youth innovation initiatives promoting the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to encourage youth to take part in the One Million SDG Solutions Innovation Challenge as part of the UN@75 and SDG Decade of Action. This challenge aims to identify youth with viable solutions so that they can be supported by private sector, development partners and the UN system. She also engaged with local government and other partners to better understand achievements, challenges and opportunities including the impact of COVID-19 on the most vulnerable.
At the commencement of her mission, the UNRC/DO met the district leadership of Mbarara and Isingiro Districts. Mbarara District Chairman, Captain John Bosco Tumusiime recognized the efforts of  the United Nations system in the South West region particularly in Mbarara District. He outlined the challenges they were facing including the limited understanding of the presence of refugees in Mbarara City and recommended the official recognition of urban refugees. He called for the United Nations to supplement the medical facilities in the district to improve health services in Mbarara City. The Deputy Resident Commissioner for Isingiro District, Mr. Gideon Tumusiime noted that Nakivale Refugee settlement had more than 145,000 Refugees, he commended the UN and the Office of the Prime Minister for being active participants in district level coordination platforms and recognized the importance of the robust support of the security forces. He also noted that the district leadership faced a challenge at the border due to insufficient observation of the standard operation procedures for the prevention of COVID-19 by some of the people crossing. Ms. Malango welcomed the close coordination and committed to bring the issues to the attention of the relevant authorities in Kampala.
During her mission, the UNRC/DO H.E. Rosa Malango was accompanied by the UN Area Coordinator for the South West, Ms. Bik Lum; Assistant Private Secretary to the President of the Republic, Ms. Caroline Kembabazi; Ag. Refugee Desk Officer Ms.  Polyne Irene Abina; UN Staff, members of the Youth Coalition for SDGs Edwin Muhumuza and Maurine Tukahirwa;  and Youth from the media challenge Noah Omuya and Christine Kabazira. The mission visited Nakivale Refugee Settlement where she observed first-hand the on-going UN critical programmes and the impact of COVID-19 on service delivery. During her visit to Rubondo, she observed the cash enrolment and verification (CEV) for Nutrition by the World Food Programme (WFP) and engaged in a dialogue with beneficiaries on the impact of the assistance. She also visited a Green House Project in Rubondo, operated by a group of women survivors of gender based violence supported by UNHCR.  She visited the Accelerated Education Programme (AEP) supported by the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in Kashojwa. During the dialogue with parents, teachers, children and youth, AEP was recognized for promoting alternative means of education for children while schools are closed due to COVID-19. A request for additional material and support to sustain these safe spaces especially for the youth was reiterated clearly. A visit to the Kabahinda COVID-19 Quarantine Centre supported by UNHCR and Isingiro District led to a conversation to better understand how to reinforce links between this center and district management in light of the growing number of local residents.
“I wish to convey my profound appreciation to the UN Area Coordinator and Security Official for the South West for her leadership and to all UN front line staff and partners for staying on post and sustaining the lifeline to those who rely on assistance to survive. Every single place we went to, we heard a vote of thanks, appreciation and concrete examples of how the critical UN programmes are helping to sustain and improve lives,” said Ms. Malango. “I thank the Government of Uganda for enabling us to be able to deliver on our humanitarian mandate during these challenging times and for the leadership in sustaining the fight against COVID-19,” she added. She also thanked  donors for enabling UN critical programs to continue. She also observed that UN staff working on critical programmes were overstretched and committed to increasing support as part of her duty of care.
On the second day of her mission, Ms. Malango visited several youth innovation initiatives promoting the attainment of SDGs in Mbarara and its environment which included: Bishop Stuart University Youth Incubation Hub where youth demonstrated solutions to agri-business, renewable energy and cleaning products including adding value to bananas, producing briquettes and energy saving stoves as well as the production of sanitizers, liquid soap etc. She also visited the Youth Go-Green Bamboo Collection Center/Mother Garden and discussed modalities to link to this innovation to the Presidential Initiative for Wetland Restoration and River Catchment areas. Youth engagement included a visit to Cynthia Winery Innovation producers of banana wine and briquettes as well as youth working on home decorations and cleaning materials. During the launch of the Mbarara Innovation Centre promoting tailoring among other initiatives she called on the youth in Mbarara to work together to promote the SDGs and each other. She invited the Innovation Centre to look into opportunities for youth in high school to facilitate their access to sustainable livelihoods.
Ms. Malango concluded her mission with a live TV talk show on TV West which was also transmitted live on Radio West. She was accompanied by two leaders of the Youth Coalition for SDGs, Edwin Muhumuza and Maurine Tukahirwa, and  youth innovators from Mbarara, Cynthia Nkahirwa and Abbey Musiime, as well as the Assistant Private Secretary to the President. As part of activities in Uganda to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the United Nations she called on the public to participate in the global online survey and share their views on the United Nations they want in future by participating in the survey at www.un75.online  She called on youth in the South Western Region to participate in the One Million SDG Solutions from Youth in Uganda Innovation challenge, which aims at identifying youth with solutions that are changing lives. Youth are called upon to submit entries at www.ugandayouthsolutions.com as the best innovations will receive grants and start up support from UN agencies, private sector and partners.
United Nations Resident Coordinator's Office
5th Floor, World Food Programme Building
Plot 17-19, Clement Hill Road
Kampala, Uganda
URL: https://uganda.un.org/en/94239-un-resident-coordinator-concludes-mission-south-western-uganda




