Date: 25 November 2023
Title: Public Statement by the United Nations System in Uruguay: International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women
Content: 25 November 2023
Public Statement by the United Nations System in Uruguay November 25th - International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women
Uruguay, November 24, 2023. On the occasion of November 25, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, the United Nations system in Uruguay reaffirms its commitment to combating gender-based violence and expresses concern over the high rates of violence against women in Uruguay.
According to the Second Survey on Gender-Based Violence and Generations, 77% of women over the age of 15 report having experienced gender-based violence in some form and at some point in their lives. Official figures show that in Uruguay, there have been 117 reports of domestic violence per day so far in 2023, equating to one report every 12 minutes. In the first 10 months of 2023, there were 13 attempted femicides and 19 femicides, the most extreme form of this violence. According to the latest data from ECLAC, Uruguay had one of the highest femicide rates in the region in 2022: 1.6 per 100,000 inhabitants.
The magnitude of the problem demands urgent efforts from all of society, both in the public and private spheres, to put an end to this form of violence. In this regard, it is crucial to deepen national efforts to implement Law No. 19,580, especially in prevention actions, as recommended by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), and to amplify the voices of victims and survivors of gender-based violence.
We reaffirm our commitment to continue collaborating with public institutions and civil society organizations. We trust in the joint efforts of all sectors of society to end violence and discrimination against women. Uruguay's commitment to human rights is the best asset to achieve this.
25 de Mayo 745, piso 1 - 11000 Montevideo - Uruguay
URL: https://uruguay.un.org/en/253842-public-statement-united-nations-system-uruguay-international-day-elimination-violence




Date: 25 September 2023
Title: Reduction of the rotation period of Uruguay's blue helmets
Content: 25 September 2023
La rotación bajará de doce a seis meses.
Uruguay received the official communication from the United Nations Department of Peace Operations regarding the acceptance of the proposal from the Ministry of National Defense of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay to reduce the rotation period of personnel serving operational roles in peacekeeping missions from twelve to six months, as a way to promote greater participation of female military personnel.
This request arises from the Assessment of Opportunities and Barriers to Women's Participation in Peace Operations (MOWIP), conducted in the Uruguayan Armed Forces in 2020 and published in 2021. The identified barriers support the project "Strategies and Actions for Increasing the Significant Participation of Women from the Uruguayan Armed Forces in Peace Operations," which is funded by the Elsie Initiative and has been implemented in the country since October 2022, under the leadership of the Ministry of Defense and its strategic partners, UN Women and the Uruguayan Agency for International Cooperation (AUCI).
25 de Mayo 745, piso 1 - 11000 Montevideo - Uruguay
URL: https://uruguay.un.org/en/247253-reduction-rotation-period-uruguays-blue-helmets




Date: 27 March 2023
Title: Statement Regarding Fraudulent Emails
Content: 27 March 2023
Statement from the United Nations System in Uruguay Regarding Fraudulent Emails.
Montevideo, Saturday, March 25th. Regarding the circulation of some fraudulent emails inviting individuals, on behalf of the United Nations, to participate in Session 56 of the Commission on Population and Development, scheduled to take place in New York in April of the current year, with instructions for recipients to make wire transfers or payments to secure a hotel reservation, with the promise of subsequent reimbursement for travel and accommodation costs, the United Nations System in Uruguay wishes to inform the following:
Firstly, these messages were not sent or forwarded by the United Nations System in Uruguay;
Secondly, the United Nations System does not request recipients to make bank transfers or payments in advance when extending invitations to events, with the promise of reimbursement for such transfers later on;
These emails do not in any way bind the United Nations System in Uruguay for any actions taken by recipients based on the content of these messages;
Finally, the United Nations System in Uruguay recommends that individuals who receive these messages promptly report them to the appropriate authorities.
25 de Mayo 745, piso 1 - 11000 Montevideo - Uruguay
URL: https://uruguay.un.org/en/225011-statement-regarding-fraudulent-emails




Date: 25 November 2022
Title: These were the results of the project to strengthen the socio-economic response to the COVID-19 emergency.
Content: 25 November 2022
The results of the project "Strengthening the socio-economic response with a generational and gender perspective to the COVID-19 emergency" were presented
Montevideo, November 23, 2022. To conclude the project "Strengthening the socio-economic response with a generational and gender perspective to the COVID-19 emergency," an event presenting the results was held at the United Nations House in Uruguay. The project, funded by the United Nations Multi-Partner Trust Fund (MPTF), placed special emphasis on creating conditions to strengthen social protection mechanisms with a generational and gender perspective. This involved advancing the comprehensiveness of information systems, supporting the early childhood program "Uruguay Crece Contigo," improving employability and job placement conditions for women in vulnerable situations, reintegrating adolescents into the educational system, and identifying social protection gaps at the territorial level.
The following government institutions played active roles in the implementation of this project: the National Institute for Women (INMUJERES), the Ministry of Social Development (MIDES), the National Administration of Public Education (ANEP), the National Institute of Statistics (INE), the Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) along with local governments, and had the coordination of the Uruguayan Agency for International Cooperation (AUCI). Additionally, the following United Nations agencies participated: UNICEF, UNFPA, UNDP, IOM, and UN Women.
During the closing event, progress and results of the project implementation were presented, and several authorities from the participating institutions shared their reflections on the project's contribution to their institution's objectives, as well as the lessons learned and challenges for public policies. Additionally, a video summarizing the contents of the different project components was shared.
As a result of the project, there is now a georeferencing system for all statistical information, allowing various government entities to more efficiently identify households and individuals with greater socio-economic and health vulnerabilities. It will also advance a metric to identify processes for exiting situations of vulnerability. In this regard, this work complements the design and elaboration of a Multidimensional Poverty Index to be produced by the INE.
In order to improve the available information to identify gender gaps and the progress and setbacks experienced after the pandemic, the third National Survey on Time Use and Unpaid Work was conducted and is currently being analyzed to present the results on March 8th.
On the other hand, the National Directorate of Transfers and Data Analysis (DINTAD) of MIDES, responsible for identifying beneficiaries of monetary transfers, advanced in implementing a pilot to update the eligibility of those accessing the Social Card Program (TUS) to improve coverage and sufficiency for the vulnerable population.
Given that the crisis generated by the pandemic had a significantly greater impact on women from lower social strata and from rural areas, a program on Employability, Care, and Labor Insertion for women in vulnerable situations was designed and implemented, including solutions for caregiving.
A program supporting migrant women entrepreneurs and those from the host community in areas with higher migrant influx during the pandemic was also implemented.
Finally, the Educational Revolt program was designed and implemented in some María Espínola centers of ANEP to bring adolescents with greater difficulties in sustaining educational continuity closer to the center, a phenomenon exacerbated during the pandemic
25 de Mayo 745, piso 1 - 11000 Montevideo - Uruguay
URL: https://uruguay.un.org/en/208803-these-were-results-project-strengthen-socio-economic-response-covid-19-emergency




Date: 09 August 2022
Title: Press Release: INDDHH
Content: 09 August 2022
The United Nations system in Uruguay would like to emphasize the relevance of the work carried out by the National Human Rights Institution and Ombudsman's Office (INDDHH).
Montevideo, August 9th.
The INDDHH is a significant asset for the country in terms of human rights. Internationally, it is considered a reference institution. For this reason, the selection and appointment process of the INDDHH's Board of Directors for the period 2022-2027 is of great importance. In this regard, national regulations mention requirements such as experience and notable expertise in human rights or high moral authority. These criteria reflect, among others, the Paris Principles, which guide the work of these institutions globally. Among them, it is worth mentioning the importance of safeguarding the formal and functional independence of the institution.
The United Nations system trusts that the selection process for the next Board of Directors of the INDDHH will guarantee international standards and expresses its deepest recognition of Uruguay's culture of respect for human rights, which serves as inspiration for many other countries.
25 de Mayo 745, piso 1 - 11000 Montevideo - Uruguay
URL: https://uruguay.un.org/en/194115-press-release-inddhh




Date: 22 June 2022
Title: ONU Mujeres y el Ministerio de Ambiente lanzan proyecto de adaptación al cambio climático con perspectiva de género
Content: 22 June 2022
El sábado 11 de junio, durante la celebración de la Expo Uruguay Sostenible, y con la presencia del ministro de Ambiente, Adrián Peña, del coordinador residente de Naciones Unidas en Uruguay, Pablo Ruiz, la directora de Inmujeres MIDES y de la directora de programas de ONU Mujeres, Magdalena Furtado, se presentó el proyecto que conjuga adaptación al cambio climático con perspectiva de género.
ONU Mujeres será la agencia encargada de la implementación del proyecto "Fortalecer la gobernanza de la planificación y el financiamiento para la adaptación y mitigación del cambio climático con perspectiva de género en sectores y territorios clave en Uruguay”, en conjunto con el Ministerio de Ambiente a través de la Dirección Nacional de Cambio Climático e InMujeres de MIDES. Financiado por los fondos otorgados por el Green Climate Fund de Naciones Unidas dentro del programa Readiness, el proyecto está dotado con un presupuesto de USD 235,713 a implementarse en un plazo de 18 meses.
El lanzamiento, que se realizó el sábado 11 de junio a las 14.30 horas en el escenario principal del Velódromo Municipal en el marco de la Expo Uruguay Sostenible. Comenzó con unas palabras de apertura por parte de Adrián Peña, ministro de Ambiente, y de Pablo Ruiz Hiebra, Coordinador Residente de Naciones Unidas en Uruguay. Posteriormente, se dio paso a la presentación del proyecto del Green Climate Fund: “Fortalecer la gobernanza de la planificación y el financiamiento para la adaptación y mitigación del cambio climático con perspectiva de género en sectores y territorios clave en Uruguay” a cargo del Ministerio de Ambiente.  Durante el evento también participaron la directora de programas de ONU Mujeres en Uruguay, Magdalena Furtado, de Viviana Pesce, directora nacional de Aguas del Ministerio de Ambiente, Mónica Bottero, directora de InMujeres | MIDES, y Andrea Maddalena, directora de Descentralización de Inmujeres |MIDES.
La mirada de género se convierte de esta manera en eje fundamental de las políticas de adaptación al cambio climático, sumando a una tendencia que impulsan las Naciones Unidas en Uruguay y en el mundo de la mano de los Objetivos de Desarrollo Sostenible. Así lo expresó el coordinador residente Pablo Ruiz: "Los temas de género son totalmente transversales en la agenda 2030". El ministro Peña afirmó que "El cambio climático acrecienta las desigualdades de género (...), afecta de manera diferente a los diferentes grupos sociales”. Por su parte, la directora de InMujeres, Mónica Bottero dijo “Género y cambio climático son dos ejes de la conversación internacional y tenemos el deber de explicar a la ciudadanía la relación entre cambio climático y género". En su intervención, Magdalena Furtado de ONU Mujeres puso de manifiesto la importancia de la participación de las mujeres en las mesas de decisión: “Las políticas de cambio climático son más eficientes cuando no solo están destinadas a mujeres, sino que cuentan con ellas en las mesas de decisión”.
Es por ello por lo que, entre los objetivos de este proyecto, cobra relevancia la integración de la perspectiva de género como parte fundamental de las estrategias de planificación del cambio climático de los actores claves del territorio. Se trabajará en el fortalecimiento de capacidades y coordinación de las principales instituciones nacionales y sectoriales, actores no gubernamentales, el sector privado (en especial empresas lideradas por mujeres) e instituciones financieras.
Con el fin de garantizar sinergias y evitar la duplicación de esfuerzos, el Comité Directivo del proyecto, integrado por el Ministerio de Ambiente (NDA), Inmujeres y ONU Mujeres, supervisará directamente a la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto (UCP), se asegurará de construir sobre lo alcanzado con previos fondos Readiness. ONU Mujeres, como Socio Ejecutor (DP), establecerá sinergias con el proyecto de Inversión de Impacto de Género que está en curso en Uruguay.
Las consecuencias del cambio climático tienen un doble impacto en las mujeres al exacerbar las desigualdades de género ya existentes. Las mujeres están en una situación de mayor riesgo climático debido a su menor acceso a oportunidades, información, capacitación técnica y de activos para construir resiliencia. A pesar de su vulnerabilidad, las mujeres tienen un rol clave en estos sectores, y su contribución es fundamental para garantizar la disponibilidad de alimentos, recursos e ingresos, y, quizá aún más importante, son “agentes de cambio” en potencia.
Desde ONU Mujeres abogamos por igualdad de género hoy para un mañana sostenible, haciendo un llamado a poner a las personas y al medioambiente en el centro de todas las políticas públicas, sin dejar a nadie atrás.
25 de Mayo 745, piso 1 - 11000 Montevideo - Uruguay
URL: https://uruguay.un.org/en/187227-onu-mujeres-y-el-ministerio-de-ambiente-lanzan-proyecto-de-adaptaci%C3%B3n-al-cambio-clim%C3%A1tico




